     * ARCHES
     * What is Cultural Heritage?
     * Cultural heritage “in Crisis”
     * Blow it up: cultural heritage and film
     * ARCHES advisors
--
   Special topics in art history>
   ARCHES (At Risk Cultural Heritage Education Series)>
   A beginner's guide
--

What is Cultural Heritage?

--
   inches (Musée du Louvre)
   We often hear about the importance of cultural heritage. But what is
   cultural heritage? And whose heritage is it? Whose national heritage,
   for example, does the Mona Lisa by Leonardo da Vinci belong to? Is it
   French or Italian?
   First of all, let’s have a look at the meaning of the words. “Heritage”
   is a property, something that is inherited, passed down from previous
   generations. In the case of “cultural heritage,” the heritage doesn’t
   consist of money or property, but of culture, values, and traditions.
   Cultural heritage implies a shared bond, our belonging to a community.
   It represents our history and our identity; our bond to the past, to
--

Tangible and intangible cultural heritage

   Cultural heritage often brings to mind artifacts (paintings, drawings,
   prints, mosaics, sculptures), historical monuments and buildings, as
   well as archaeological sites. But the concept of cultural heritage is
   even wider than that, and has gradually grown to include all evidence
--
   manuscripts, and instruments, etc. either as individual objects or as
   collections. Today, towns, underwater heritage, and the natural
   environment are also considered part of cultural heritage since
   communities identify themselves with the natural landscape.
   Moreover, cultural heritage is not only limited to material objects
   that we can see and touch. It also consists of immaterial elements:
--
   skills transmitted from generation to generation within a community.
   Intangible heritage, therefore, includes a dizzying array of
   traditions, music, and dances such as tango and flamenco, holy
--

The importance of protecting cultural heritage

   But cultural heritage is not just a set of cultural objects or
   traditions from the past. It is also the result of a selection process:
--
   All peoples make their contribution to the culture of the world. That’s
   why it’s important to respect and safeguard all cultural heritage,
   through national laws and international treaties. Illicit trafficking
--
   and destruction of historical buildings and monuments cause irreparable
   damage to the cultural heritage of a country. UNESCO (United Nations
   Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization), founded in 1954,
   has adopted international conventions on the protection of cultural
   heritage, to foster intercultural understanding while stressing the
   importance of international cooperation.
   The protection of cultural property is an old problem. One of the most
   frequently recurring issues in protecting cultural heritage is the
   difficult relationship between the interests of the individual and the
--

Whose cultural heritage?

   The term “cultural heritage” typically conjures up the idea of a single
   society and the communication between its members. But cultural
--
   sixteenth century by Leonardo da Vinci, and displayed at the Musée du
   Louvre in Paris. From a modern point of view, whose national heritage
   does the Mona Lisa belong to?
--
   Leonardo was a very famous Italian painter, that’s why the Mona Lisa is
   obviously part of the Italian cultural heritage. When Leonardo went to
   France, to work at
--
   the royal collections: that’s why it is obviously part of the French
   national heritage, too. This painting has been defined as the best
   known, the most visited, the most written about, and the most parodied
   work of art in the world: as such, it belongs to the cultural heritage
   of all mankind.
   Cultural heritage passed down to us from our parents must be preserved
   for the benefit of all. In an era of globalization, cultural heritage
   helps us to remember our cultural diversity, and its understanding
--
   UNESCO on Polyphonic singing of the Aka Pygmies of Central Africa
   More from Smarthistory on at-risk cultural heritage education series
   (ARCHES).
   More stories of protecting our heritage and fostering creativity from
   UNESCO.
--
       more
       In the final paragraph Elena Franchi said "Cultrual heritage passed
       down to us from our parents must be preserved" that profoundly
       resonated deeply in my spirit. Why? Because generations of culture,
       family heritage and ancient religious practices are lost to
       generations through the tearing down of of old churches, and
--
       Where does cultural appropriation play into this discussion of
       cultural heritage? This is something that has often been discussed
       about Pablo Picasso's work that was inspired by African masks. It
--
       being inspired to appropriating artistic styles that are not your
       own? If cultural heritage is something that should be preserved for
       us all, does this mean we all have the right to take inspiration
--
       Posted 9 years ago. Direct link to R3hall's post “Isn't cultural
       heritage i...”
       (BUTTON)
       more
       Isn't cultural heritage is also a form of history: "learn from it
       or be doomed to repeat its blunders"?
--
            The way I see, Culture is a way of life. Or more accurately
            how you live your life. Cultural heritage is a way to catalog
            how the past ways of life flow into what they have become
            today. So yes cultural heritage is a form of history. But
            rather then focusing on dates and facts, cultural heritage
            focuses on intellectual and spiritual humanity.
--
            Posted 8 years ago. Direct link to cjnannycarol's post
            “Cultural Heritage is the ...”
            (BUTTON)
            more
            Cultural Heritage is the sum total of various influences on an
            individual, as of a particular point in time, that influences
--
       Hey I just loved the article as it spoke on behalf of the people as
       me who thrive to preserve their heritage but in vain. Here in
       Pakistan, more than 1000 sites are unpreserved and untouched to
--
       many departments but they said, that since I belong to an IR field,
       how could you possibly be concerned or worried about Heritage? Like
       seriously! If people as You can assist and suppport our vision in
       our countries, things would be better. I yearn to save and protect
       my HERITAGE InshaaAllah which I would do so. Kudos for your
       article. It speaks Volume :)
--
       Will the Mona Lisa be known as part of the Italian cultural
       heritage or France? Because even though it's made in France,
       Leanardo was a famous ITALIAN painter.
--
            Since the painter, Leonardo, was a homosexual, you might just
            as easily say that is part of Gay cultural heritage.
            (BUTTON) CommentButton navigates to signup page
