   Difference Between Similar Terms » Comments Feed Compare the Difference
   Between Similar Terms » Difference Between Ancestry and Heritage
   Comments Feed alternate alternate
--

   Home / People / History / Difference Between Ancestry and Heritage

Difference Between Ancestry and Heritage

--

Key Difference – Ancestry vs Heritage

--
   grandparents, and we are descendants of their ancestry. On the other
   hand, heritage is the inherited customs, traditions, beliefs,
   monuments, and artifacts from our ancestors. Heritage includes both
   physical objects and intangible things. The key difference between
   ancestry and heritage is that the ancestry is the lineage of the people
   while the heritage is the inheritance from the ancestry. In this
   article, we are going to look at the difference between the terms,
   ancestry and heritage, in more detail.

--

   ancestry vs. heritage
   [INS: :INS]

What is Heritage?

   Heritage deals with cultural inheritance. Material things, as well as
   non-tangible things, can be inherited via culture. Whatever the things
   we inherit from our ancestors can be considered as heritage. Also,
   peoples’ lifestyles are shaped by heritage. That is, we form our
   behaviors according to the habits, lifestyles, ideas, beliefs, and
   practices, etc., inherited from our culture. Heritage can be seen in
   many forms. Natural resources, such as fauna and flora,
   landscapes, land forms, etc. can be considered as natural heritages.
   Artifacts, paintings, jewelry, clothes, and monuments can be described
   as material heritages. Beliefs, values, traditions, ethics, and morals
   are non-physical features that we’ve  inherited. All these things add
   value to humans as a whole, and we all benefit from those heritages.

   An important fact about heritage is that it could be preserved and
   valued as well as it could be destroyed. We can leave our heritages to
   the future generations also if we want. However, heritage is an
   essential part of our current life.

   difference between ancestry and heritage

What is the difference between Ancestry and Heritage?

Definitions of ancestry and heritage

--

   Heritage: Heritage is a sort of inheritance from the ancestry, not
   necessarily relatives.

Characteristics of Ancestry and Heritage

--

   Heritage: Heritage is mostly a cultural phenomenon.

--

   Heritage: Heritage can be preserved as well as destroyed, according to
   the will.
--

   Heritage: Heritage is important in understanding cultural and social
   values, especially in bygone.
--

   “Heritage Hill 2” by Kent county; transferred by User:Werewombat
   [Public Domain] via Wikimedia Commons
--

   Filed Under: History Tagged With: ancestry, ancestry and heritage
   difference, Ancestry definition, Ancestry meaning, Heritage, Heritage
   definition, Heritage meaning

--
       August 18, 2017 at 5:11 am
       Thank you so much I am excited to find my Heritage through my
       ancestry my grandfather I knew of him I thank you for your help
