    #World Dance Heritage Research Centre » Feed World Dance Heritage
   Research Centre » Comments Feed alternate alternate alternate

   World Dance Heritage Research Centre

--
   Home » Dance Research » Conceptual Framework » The Missing Body and
   Embodiment in Heritage Studies (3.3)

The Missing Body and Embodiment in Heritage Studies (3.3)

--

     * Embodiment, the Body and Heritage
          + Safeguarding ICH and Maintaining Cultural Diversity
--

Embodiment, the Body and Heritage

--
   oral traditions, to their ‘habitus and habit’ and that intangible
   heritage is alive.

--
     Place and performance are bound together through the human body . .
     . The dramatic shift in values implied in the Intangible Heritage
     Convention . . . represents a radical paradigm shift from the
--
   maintaining cultural diversity and enforcing human rights) opines that
   intangible heritage is:

     ‘embodied in people rather than in inanimate objects’ and that
     ‘managing intangible heritage . . . we are dealing with embodied and
     living heritage’.
     Logan (2012, p.236)
--

   Indeed, in dance, the body becomes a carrier of cultural heritage in a
   tangible way.
--
   In the following sections, I will build the conceptual framework of
   holistic dance/heritage, by turning to the theories of Merleau-Ponty,
   Bourdieu, and Giddens.
--
   These will give me the theoretical tools to gradually integrate all the
   tangible and intangible elements of heritage into a fluid,
   comprehensive model, in which material and immaterial elements
--

   Next Page >> Using Merleau-Ponty and phenomenology for heritage
   studies.
--
   Hi - I'm Dr Valeria Lo Iacono and I am a dance researcher with a PhD in
   dance as a form of living heritage. I also teach belly dance and love
   to travel to discover new dances around the world. I have worked also
--
   Conceptual Framework Intro (3.1) The debate over what is tangible
   versis intangible heritage. The debate over what is tangible versis
   intangible heritage. The debate over what is tangible versis intangible
   heritage. Tangible vs Intangible Divide Critique (3.2) Phenomenology of
   dance Phenomenology of dance Phenomenology of dance Using
   Merleau-Ponty: Phenomenology for Dance Heritage (3.4) Theoryt of
   practice and dance. Theoryt of practice and dance. Theoryt of practice
   and dance. Using Bourdieu’s Theory of Practice for Dance and Heritage
   Research (3.5) Dance and structuration theory Dance and structuration
   theory Dance and structuration theory Using Giddens Structuration
   Theory for Dance Heritage and Subjectivity vs Objectivity Dichotomy
   (3.6) Cultural heritage model Cultural heritage model Cultural heritage
   model Moving to a Model of Living Cultural Heritage (3.7) Dance project
   questions Dance project questions Dance project questions
   Dance/Heritage Research Questions and Summary (3.8)
   Search for: ____________________ Search
--
       Sharqi Belly Dance from the 1960s (5.4.1. Continued)
     * Dance as living cultural heritage Dance as living cultural heritage
       Beyond Binarism: Exploring a Model of Living Cultural Heritage for
       Dance
--

   Valeria of world dance heritage Valeria of world dance heritage

   Hi – I’m Dr Valeria Lo Iacono. I have created this site to talk about
   dance heritage around the world. If you love dance, this site is for
   you!
--

   Copyright © 2015 to 2023 WorldDanceheritage.org | Privacy Policy | As
   an Amazon Associate I earn from qualifying purchases.
