   Many communities, many populations indeed celebrate their cultural
   heritage through literature, art, sports, traditions, food, even their
   daily routine and gestures: each difference, each particularity can be
--
   Highland Games can also be a proof of an assertion of a certain
   heritage: it aims at celebrating the Scottish culture through sport. It
   consists in watching bagpipes players parading, people wearing kilts,
--

A memorial heritage

   This legacy is also prominent through the construction for the
   preservation of a memorial heritage, passed on from one generation to
   another, a beacon of knowledge whose aim is to enlighten the world,
--
   national parks in the USA like Yellowstone for example, are part of the
   heritage that needs to be kept intact in order to show to the future
   populations the grandeur of a nation and the beauty of a country; that
--
   become a fight, a struggle to defend a territory or a border or to
   preserve a threatened heritage or culture as is the case with Native
   populations or minorities. In fact, the Stolen Generation in Australia
--
   Greenland and in Canada, for whom the respect of their cultural and
   environmental heritage is a question of survival.
   Closer to us, the fight between Northern Ireland and The Republic of
--
   imcAnswer1?
   Culture heritage is often used to celebrate a region's identity.
   imcAnswer2|imcAnswer3|imcAnswer5?
   The purpose of a memorial heritage is to help the rest of the world
   aspire to greater cultural values.
   imcAnswer2|imcAnswer3|imcAnswer5?
   The cultural heritage of the Maoris is the same as that of the Inuit.
   imcAnswer4?
   Cultural heritage can cause problems when people want to assert their
   right to it.
--
   What does the writer mean by ”Traditions like the Highland Games can
   also be a proof of an assertion of a certain heritage…“?
   Cochez la bonne réponse.
--
   ( ) Community-based festivals and competitions are the best way to
   assert their heritage.
   ( ) ok It is through competitions like the Highland Games that a
--
   positions.
   ( ) Cultural heritage is not linked to the pride of their history or
   territory.
   ( ) Cultural heritage can enable members of a community to dream.
   ( ) ok Giving up on one's cultural heritage could lead to its
   extinction.
--
   ( ) Events such as Brexit mean that liberal voters can also maintain
   their cultural heritage.
   ( ) ok Major political events can also be considered as symbols of
