     * ARCHES
     * What is Cultural Heritage?
     * Cultural heritage “in Crisis”
     * Blow it up: cultural heritage and film
     * ARCHES advisors
--
   Special topics in art history>
   ARCHES (At Risk Cultural Heritage Education Series)>
   A beginner's guide
--

Cultural heritage “in Crisis”

--
   the news media as well as in academic journals on the theme of
   “cultural heritage in crisis.” You could say it’s a booming field.
   But how true is it?
   It’s certainly true that cultural heritage is in danger of destruction,
   looting, or illicit trafficking in many places around the world. It’s
   also true that new types of threats to cultural heritage have developed
   in the last few decades.
--

   Some regions—most recently the heritage-rich areas of the Middle
   East—have certainly experienced a marked increase in illicit
--
   But usage of the term “crisis” to describe the destruction of cultural
   heritage around the world is perhaps a misleading one. “Crisis” is a
   term that indicates a problem that has an urgent, yet temporary
   quality. However, the loss and destruction of cultural heritage is not
   new in human history and is not restricted by the duration of political
--
   United States, face a longstanding and ongoing struggle to protect
   heritage in the face of numerous challenges, regardless of political,
   social, or economic security. It may be worth considering that the idea
   of “crisis” deceptively frames the destruction of heritage as a product
   of temporary instabilities that cease to be a problem once conflicts
   are over. In reality, conditions of “crisis” only really provide new
   opportunities for heritage destruction processes that were already
   happening and will continue happening after the “crisis” is over.

Threats to cultural heritage: war

--
   are two types of threats:
     * destruction of heritage sites and objects caused by war, poverty,
       and development initiatives
--

   In wartime, destruction of heritage sites can be a result of collateral
   damage, for example, when a bomb targeting one location inadvertently
--
   caused by ISIS. However, the majority of damage to cities and to
   heritage has in fact not been caused by ISIS, but by the Syrian
   government’s campaign of relentless aerial bombardment, which has
   destroyed up to 70% of the fabric of the ancient city of Aleppo, a
   UNESCO World Heritage site.
   Walter Hahn, Dresden: view of the destroyed inner city from the town
--
   manuscripts dating back to the 16th century. Deliberate or neglectful
   destruction of heritage has long been a key strategy of war, and
   perpetrators are rarely prosecuted for it.
   The long history of the destruction of heritage shows us that the
   elimination of culture has always been viewed as a powerful tool of
   domination and as a key strategy for eliminating the value humans
   accord to their lives. In recent years, the destruction of heritage —
   whether through war, commercial exploitation, and/or looting — has been
--
   erased. It is not surprising to note, therefore, that the destruction
   of heritage is often a precursor to genocide. This is because in
   denying people their past, perpetrators also deny them a future.

Threats to cultural heritage: development, climate change, tourism, and
natural disasters

   Nevertheless, wartime destruction of heritage is only a small fraction
   of the overall loss of cultural heritage around the world. Much more
   significant and long-lasting is destruction due to urban development,
--
   expand resource extraction on public lands in the United States is also
   causing widespread loss of heritage, as at the Bears Ears National
   Monument, which was controversially reduced by 85% in a decision signed
--
   Crowds in Venice (photo: Gary Bembridge, CC BY 2.0)
   Although many heritage sites are preserved in order to encourage
   tourist revenue, tourism can also cause massive destruction because of
--

   If destruction of heritage during wartime is akin to a relatively
   sudden death, looting is like a cancer that slowly erodes it. Looting
   is the theft of heritage items for sale on the antiquities market, most
   often to wealthy private buyers in the United States and Europe. As art
--
   Most importantly, it allows us to focus on the real driver of
   destruction: the demand in wealthy countries for heritage objects — a
   demand that ultimately fuels the entire antiquities trade — and the lax
--
   as that between art — largely considered to be a private commodity
   subject to market demand, versus heritage — which is typically framed
   as “universal” and the patrimony of all.
   Understanding that cultural heritage has been under threat for a very
   long time allows us to avoid short-term, crisis-based responses, and
--
   Like Amazon, Facebook,” The Wall Street Journal, November 1, 2017.
   Trinidad Rico, "Heritage at Risk: The Authority and Autonomy of a
   Dominant Preservation Framework," in Heritage Keywords: Rhetoric and
   Redescription in Cultural Heritage, Kathryn Lafrenz Samuels and
   Trinidad Rico, editors, Boulder, University of Colorado Press, 2015,
--
       peoples are erased. It is not surprising to note, therefore, that
       the destruction of heritage is often a precursor to genocide. This
       is because in denying people their past, perpetrators also deny
--
       the names are being changed have no place in a democratic country.
       so, the destruction of heritage is certainly causing a psycological
       genocide where one fears any discussion.
--
       11:21
       , but in this quest to save cultural heritage, aren't we fighting a
       losing battle? As long as people, who are the basis of everything,
       won't recognize the value of heritage either cultural or of any
       other kind, there would be no point trying to save it.
