<lang="EN">
<page="EN-1">
<text>   [tr?id=757309131330167ev=PageViewnoscript=1]

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-M7B3LZV

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-PNRTH5W

   Skip to main content

   Heritage Foundation
   Back to Top
   (BUTTON)
   ____________________ (BUTTON) Submit

   Frequently Searched
     * Critical Race Theory
     * Life
     * Index of Economic Freedom
     * China
     * The Kevin Roberts Show
     * Budget and Spending

   The Heritage Foundation
   Open Navigation Open Search

Secondary Navigation

     * About Heritage
     * Events
     * Renew
     * Donate
     * Press
     * Contact

   Explore Issues open search

   Top Issues
     * Asia
     * Election Integrity
     * Immigration
     * Life
     * Technology

Secondary Navigation

     * About Heritage
     * Events
     * Renew
     * Donate
     * Press
     * Contact

   Political Thought
     * American History
     * Conservatism
     * Progressivism

   International
     * Asia
     * Europe
     * Global Politics
     * Middle East

   Government Spending
     * Budget and Spending
     * Debt
     * Taxes

   Energy  Environment
     * Climate
     * Energy
     * Environment

   Legal and Judicial
     * Courts
     * Crime and Justice
     * Election Integrity
     * Second Amendment
     * The Constitution

   National Security
     * Cybersecurity
     * Defense
     * Immigration

   Domestic Policy
     * Education
     * Government Regulation
     * Health Care Reform
     * Technology
     * Welfare

   Culture
     * Gender
     * Life
     * Marriage and Family
     * Religious Liberty

   Economy
     * International Economies
     * Markets and Finance
     * Trade

Constitution

The Heritage Guide to the Constitution

     * Preamble
     * Articles
     * Legislative
     * Executive
     * Judicial
     * States
     * Amendment
     * Supreme Law
     * Ratification
     * Amendments

     Understanding the Guide

   We the People of the United States, in Order to form a more perfect
   Union, establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for the
   common defense, promote the general Welfare, and secure the Blessings
   of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, do ordain and establish this
   Constitution for the United States of America.
   x
   Essays on The Preamble
   Preamble

Article I: Legislative

Section 1

   All legislative Powers herein granted shall be vested in a Congress of
   the United States, which shall consist of a Senate and House of
   Representatives.

Section 2

   The House of Representatives shall be composed of Members chosen every
   second Year by the People of the several States, and the Electors in
   each State shall have the Qualifications requisite for Electors of the
   most numerous Branch of the State Legislature.

   No Person shall be a Representative who shall not have attained to the
   Age of twenty five Years, and been seven Years a Citizen of the United
   States, and who shall not, when elected, be an Inhabitant of that State
   in which he shall be chosen.

   Representatives and direct Taxes shall be apportioned among the several
   States which may be included within this Union, according to their
   respective Numbers, which shall be determined by adding to the whole
   Number of free Persons, including those bound to Service for a Term of
   Years, and excluding Indians not taxed, three fifths of all other
   Persons. The actual Enumeration shall be made within three Years after
   the first Meeting of the Congress of the United States, and within
   every subsequent Term of ten Years, in such Manner as they shall by Law
   direct. The Number of Representatives shall not exceed one for every
   thirty Thousand, but each State shall have at Least one Representative;
   and until such enumeration shall be made, the State of New Hampshire
   shall be entitled to chuse three, Massachusetts eight, Rhode-Island and
   Providence Plantations one, Connecticut five, New-York six, New Jersey
   four, Pennsylvania eight, Delaware one, Maryland six, Virginia ten,
   North Carolina five, South Carolina five, and Georgia three.

   When vacancies happen in the Representation from any State, the
   Executive Authority thereof shall issue Writs of Election to fill such
   Vacancies.

   The House of Representatives shall chuse their Speaker and other
   Officers; and shall have the sole Power of Impeachment.

Section 3

   The Senate of the United States shall be composed of two Senators from
   each State, chosen by the Legislature thereof for six Years; and each
   Senator shall have one Vote.

   Immediately after they shall be assembled in Consequence of the first
   Election, they shall be divided as equally as may be into three
   Classes. The Seats of the Senators of the first Class shall be vacated
   at the Expiration of the second Year, of the second Class at the
   Expiration of the fourth Year, and of the third Class at the Expiration
   of the sixth Year, so that one third may be chosen every second Year;
   and if Vacancies happen by Resignation, or otherwise, during the Recess
   of the Legislature of any State, the Executive thereof may make
   temporary Appointments until the next Meeting of the Legislature, which
   shall then fill such Vacancies.

   No Person shall be a Senator who shall not have attained to the Age of
   thirty Years, and been nine Years a Citizen of the United States, and
   who shall not, when elected, be an Inhabitant of that State for which
   he shall be chosen.

   The Vice President of the United States shall be President of the
   Senate, but shall have no Vote, unless they be equally divided.

   The Senate shall chuse their other Officers, and also a President pro
   tempore, in the Absence of the Vice President, or when he shall
   exercise the Office of President of the United States.

   The Senate shall have the sole Power to try all Impeachments. When
   sitting for that Purpose, they shall be on Oath or Affirmation. When
   the President of the United States is tried, the Chief Justice shall
   preside: And no Person shall be convicted without the Concurrence of
   two thirds of the Members present.

   Judgment in Cases of Impeachment shall not extend further than to
   removal from Office, and disqualification to hold and enjoy any Office
   of honor, Trust or Profit under the United States: but the Party
   convicted shall nevertheless be liable and subject to Indictment,
   Trial, Judgment and Punishment, according to Law.

Section 4

   The Times, Places and Manner of holding Elections for Senators and
   Representatives, shall be prescribed in each State by the Legislature
   thereof; but the Congress may at any time by Law make or alter such
   Regulations, except as to the Places of chusing Senators.

   The Congress shall assemble at least once in every Year, and such
   Meeting shall be on the first Monday in December, unless they shall by
   Law appoint a different Day.

Section 5

   Each House shall be the Judge of the Elections, Returns and
   Qualifications of its own Members, and a Majority of each shall
   constitute a Quorum to do Business; but a smaller Number may adjourn
   from day to day, and may be authorized to compel the Attendance of
   absent Members, in such Manner, and under such Penalties as each House
   may provide.

   Each House may determine the Rules of its Proceedings, punish its
   Members for disorderly Behaviour, and, with the Concurrence of two
   thirds, expel a Member.

   Each House shall keep a Journal of its Proceedings, and from time to
   time publish the same, excepting such Parts as may in their Judgment
   require Secrecy; and the Yeas and Nays of the Members of either House
   on any question shall, at the Desire of one fifth of those Present, be
   entered on the Journal.

   Neither House, during the Session of Congress, shall, without the
   Consent of the other, adjourn for more than three days, nor to any
   other Place than that in which the two Houses shall be sitting.

Section 6

   The Senators and Representatives shall receive a Compensation for their
   Services, to be ascertained by Law, and paid out of the Treasury of the
   United States. They shall in all Cases, except Treason, Felony and
   Breach of the Peace, be privileged from Arrest during their Attendance
   at the Session of their respective Houses, and in going to and
   returning from the same; and for any Speech or Debate in either House,
   they shall not be questioned in any other Place.

   No Senator or Representative shall, during the Time for which he was
   elected, be appointed to any civil Office under the Authority of the
   United States, which shall have been created, or the Emoluments whereof
   shall have been encreased during such time; and no Person holding any
   Office under the United States, shall be a Member of either House
   during his Continuance in Office.

Section 7

   All Bills for raising Revenue shall originate in the House of
   Representatives; but the Senate may propose or concur with Amendments
   as on other Bills.

   Every Bill which shall have passed the House of Representatives and the
   Senate, shall, before it become a Law, be presented to the President of
   the United States: If he approve he shall sign it, but if not he shall
   return it, with his Objections to that House in which it shall have
   originated, who shall enter the Objections at large on their Journal,
   and proceed to reconsider it. If after such Reconsideration two thirds
   of that House shall agree to pass the Bill, it shall be sent, together
   with the Objections, to the other House, by which it shall likewise be
   reconsidered, and if approved by two thirds of that House, it shall
   become a Law. But in all such Cases the Votes of both Houses shall be
   determined by yeas and Nays, and the Names of the Persons voting for
   and against the Bill shall be entered on the Journal of each House
   respectively. If any Bill shall not be returned by the President within
   ten Days (Sundays excepted) after it shall have been presented to him,
   the Same shall be a Law, in like Manner as if he had signed it, unless
   the Congress by their Adjournment prevent its Return, in which Case it
   shall not be a Law.

   Every Order, Resolution, or Vote to which the Concurrence of the Senate
   and House of Representatives may be necessary (except on a question of
   Adjournment) shall be presented to the President of the United States;
   and before the Same shall take Effect, shall be approved by him, or
   being disapproved by him, shall be repassed by two thirds of the Senate
   and House of Representatives, according to the Rules and Limitations
   prescribed in the Case of a Bill.

Section 8

   The Congress shall have Power To lay and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts
   and Excises, to pay the Debts and provide for the common Defence and
   general Welfare of the United States; but all Duties, Imposts and
   Excises shall be uniform throughout the United States;

   To borrow Money on the credit of the United States;

   To regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and among the several
   States, and with the Indian Tribes;

   To establish an uniform Rule of Naturalization, and uniform Laws on the
   subject of Bankruptcies throughout the United States;

   To coin Money, regulate the Value thereof, and of foreign Coin, and fix
   the Standard of Weights and Measures;

   To provide for the Punishment of counterfeiting the Securities and
   current Coin of the United States;

   To establish Post Offices and post Roads;

   To promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts, by securing for
   limited Times to Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to their
   respective Writings and Discoveries;

   To constitute Tribunals inferior to the supreme Court;

   To define and punish Piracies and Felonies committed on the high Seas,
   and Offences against the Law of Nations;

   To declare War, grant Letters of Marque and Reprisal, and make Rules
   concerning Captures on Land and Water;

   To raise and support Armies, but no Appropriation of Money to that Use
   shall be for a longer Term than two Years;

   To provide and maintain a Navy;

   To make Rules for the Government and Regulation of the land and naval
   Forces;

   To provide for calling forth the Militia to execute the Laws of the
   Union, suppress Insurrections and repel Invasions;

   To provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining, the Militia, and
   for governing such Part of them as may be employed in the Service of
   the United States, reserving to the States respectively, the
   Appointment of the Officers, and the Authority of training the Militia
   according to the discipline prescribed by Congress;

   To exercise exclusive Legislation in all Cases whatsoever, over such
   District (not exceeding ten Miles square) as may, by Cession of
   particular States, and the Acceptance of Congress, become the Seat of
   the Government of the United States, and to exercise like Authority
   over all Places purchased by the Consent of the Legislature of the
   State in which the Same shall be, for the Erection of Forts, Magazines,
   Arsenals, dock-Yards, and other needful Buildings; — And

   To make all Laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into
   Execution the foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vested by this
   Constitution in the Government of the United States, or in any
   Department or Officer thereof.

Section 9

   The Migration or Importation of such Persons as any of the States now
   existing shall think proper to admit, shall not be prohibited by the
   Congress prior to the Year one thousand eight hundred and eight, but a
   Tax or duty may be imposed on such Importation, not exceeding ten
   dollars for each Person.

   The Privilege of the Writ of Habeas Corpus shall not be suspended,
   unless when in Cases of Rebellion or Invasion the public Safety may
   require it.

   No Bill of Attainder or ex post facto Law shall be passed.

   No Capitation, or other direct, Tax shall be laid, unless in Proportion
   to the Census or enumeration herein before directed to be taken.

   No Tax or Duty shall be laid on Articles exported from any State.

   No Preference shall be given by any Regulation of Commerce or Revenue
   to the Ports of one State over those of another; nor shall Vessels
   bound to, or from, one State, be obliged to enter, clear, or pay Duties
   in another.

   No Money shall be drawn from the Treasury, but in Consequence of
   Appropriations made by Law; and a regular Statement and Account of the
   Receipts and Expenditures of all public Money shall be published from
   time to time.

   No Title of Nobility shall be granted by the United States: And no
   Person holding any Office of Profit or Trust under them, shall, without
   the Consent of the Congress, accept of any present, Emolument, Office,
   or Title, of any kind whatever, from any King, Prince, or foreign
   State.

Section 10

   No State shall enter into any Treaty, Alliance, or Confederation; grant
   Letters of Marque and Reprisal; coin Money; emit Bills of Credit; make
   any Thing but gold and silver Coin a Tender in Payment of Debts; pass
   any Bill of Attainder, ex post facto Law, or Law impairing the
   Obligation of Contracts, or grant any Title of Nobility.

   No State shall, without the Consent of the Congress, lay any Imposts or
   Duties on Imports or Exports, except what may be absolutely necessary
   for executing its inspection Laws: and the net Produce of all Duties
   and Imposts, laid by any State on Imports or Exports, shall be for the
   Use of the Treasury of the United States; and all such Laws shall be
   subject to the Revision and Controul of the Congress.

   No State shall, without the Consent of Congress, lay any Duty of
   Tonnage, keep Troops, or Ships of War in time of Peace, enter into any
   Agreement or Compact with another State, or with a foreign Power, or
   engage in War, unless actually invaded, or in such imminent Danger as
   will not admit of delay.
   x
   Essays on Article I
   A Note on the Separation of Powers
   Legislative Vesting Clause
   House of Representatives
   Elector Qualifications
   Qualifications for Representatives
   Three-fifths Clause
   Enumeration Clause
   Allocation of Representatives
   Executive Writs of Election
   Speaker of the House
   Impeachment
   Senate
   Senatorial Classes and Vacancies Clause
   Qualifications for Senators
   Vice President as Presiding Officer
   President Pro Tempore
   Trial of Impeachment
   Punishment for Impeachment
   Election Regulations
   Meetings of Congress Clause
   Qualifications and Quorum
   Expulsion Clause
   Rules Clause
   House Journal
   Adjournment
   Compensation Clause
   Privilege from Arrest
   Speech and Debate Clause
   Sinecure Clause
   Incompatibility Clause
   Origination Clause
   Presentment Clause
   Pocket Veto
   Presentment of Resolutions
   Spending Clause
   Uniformity Clause
   Taxation
   Borrowing Clause
   Commerce with Foreign Nations
   Commerce Among the States
   Commerce with the Indian Tribes
   Naturalization
   Bankruptcy Clause
   Coinage Clause
   Weights and Measures
   Counterfeiting
   Post Office
   Patent and Copyright Clause
   Inferior Courts
   Offenses Against the Law of Nations Clause
   Piracy and Felonies
   Declare War
   Marque and Reprisal
   Captures Clause
   Army Clause
   Navy Clause
   Military Regulations
   Militia Clause
   Organizing the Militia
   Enclave Clause
   Military Installations
   Necessary and Proper Clause
   Migration or Importation Clause
   Suspension of Habeas Corpus
   Bill of Attainder
   Ex Post Facto
   Direct Taxes
   Export Taxation Clause
   Port Preference Clause
   Appropriations Clause
   Emoluments Clause
   State Treaties
   State Coinage
   State Bill of Attainder and State Ex Post Facto
   Obligation of Contract
   State Title of Nobility
   Import-Export Clause
   Compact Clause

Article II: Executive

Section 1

   The executive Power shall be vested in a President of the United States
   of America. He shall hold his Office during the Term of four Years,
   and, together with the Vice President, chosen for the same Term, be
   elected, as follows:

   Each State shall appoint, in such Manner as the Legislature thereof may
   direct, a Number of Electors, equal to the whole Number of Senators and
   Representatives to which the State may be entitled in the Congress: but
   no Senator or Representative, or Person holding an Office of Trust or
   Profit under the United States, shall be appointed an Elector.

   The Electors shall meet in their respective States, and vote by Ballot
   for two Persons, of whom one at least shall not be an Inhabitant of the
   same State with themselves. And they shall make a List of all the
   Persons voted for, and of the Number of Votes for each; which List they
   shall sign and certify, and transmit sealed to the Seat of the
   Government of the United States, directed to the President of the
   Senate. The President of the Senate shall, in the Presence of the
   Senate and House of Representatives, open all the Certificates, and the
   Votes shall then be counted. The Person having the greatest Number of
   Votes shall be the President, if such Number be a Majority of the whole
   Number of Electors appointed; and if there be more than one who have
   such Majority, and have an equal Number of Votes, then the House of
   Representatives shall immediately chuse by Ballot one of them for
   President; and if no Person have a Majority, then from the five highest
   on the List the said House shall in like Manner chuse the President.
   But in chusing the President, the Votes shall be taken by States, the
   Representation from each State having one Vote; A quorum for this
   purpose shall consist of a Member or Members from two thirds of the
   States, and a Majority of all the States shall be necessary to a
   Choice. In every Case, after the Choice of the President, the Person
   having the greatest Number of Votes of the Electors shall be the Vice
   President. But if there should remain two or more who have equal Votes,
   the Senate shall chuse from them by Ballot the Vice President.

   The Congress may determine the Time of chusing the Electors, and the
   Day on which they shall give their Votes; which Day shall be the same
   throughout the United States.

   No Person except a natural born Citizen, or a Citizen of the United
   States, at the time of the Adoption of this Constitution, shall be
   eligible to the Office of President; neither shall any Person be
   eligible to that Office who shall not have attained to the Age of
   thirty five Years, and been fourteen Years a Resident within the United
   States.

   In Case of the Removal of the President from Office, or of his Death,
   Resignation, or Inability to discharge the Powers and Duties of the
   said Office, the Same shall devolve on the Vice President, and the
   Congress may by Law provide for the Case of Removal, Death, Resignation
   or Inability, both of the President and Vice President, declaring what
   Officer shall then act as President, and such Officer shall act
   accordingly, until the Disability be removed, or a President shall be
   elected.

   The President shall, at stated Times, receive for his Services, a
   Compensation, which shall neither be increased nor diminished during
   the Period for which he shall have been elected, and he shall not
   receive within that Period any other Emolument from the United States,
   or any of them.

   Before he enter on the Execution of his Office, he shall take the
   following Oath or Affirmation: — "I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that
   I will faithfully execute the Office of President of the United States,
   and will to the best of my Ability, preserve, protect and defend the
   Constitution of the United States."

Section 2

   The President shall be Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of the
   United States, and of the Militia of the several States, when called
   into the actual Service of the United States; he may require the
   Opinion, in writing, of the principal Officer in each of the executive
   Departments, upon any Subject relating to the Duties of their
   respective Offices, and he shall have Power to grant Reprieves and
   Pardons for Offences against the United States, except in Cases of
   Impeachment.

   He shall have Power, by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate,
   to make Treaties, provided two thirds of the Senators present concur;
   and he shall nominate, and by and with the Advice and Consent of the
   Senate, shall appoint Ambassadors, other public Ministers and Consuls,
   Judges of the supreme Court, and all other Officers of the United
   States, whose Appointments are not herein otherwise provided for, and
   which shall be established by Law: but the Congress may by Law vest the
   Appointment of such inferior Officers, as they think proper, in the
   President alone, in the Courts of Law, or in the Heads of Departments.

   The President shall have Power to fill up all Vacancies that may happen
   during the Recess of the Senate, by granting Commissions which shall
   expire at the End of their next Session.

Section 3

   He shall from time to time give to the Congress Information of the
   State of the Union, and recommend to their Consideration such Measures
   as he shall judge necessary and expedient; he may, on extraordinary
   Occasions, convene both Houses, or either of them, and in Case of
   Disagreement between them, with Respect to the Time of Adjournment, he
   may adjourn them to such Time as he shall think proper; he shall
   receive Ambassadors and other public Ministers; he shall take Care that
   the Laws be faithfully executed, and shall Commission all the Officers
   of the United States.

Section 4

   The President, Vice President and all civil Officers of the United
   States, shall be removed from Office on Impeachment for, and Conviction
   of, Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors.
   x
   Essays on Article II
   A Note on Administrative Agencies
   Executive Vesting Clause
   Presidential Term
   Vice President
   Presidential Electors
   Electoral College
   Presidential Vote
   Presidential Eligibility
   Presidential Succession
   Compensation
   Oath of Office
   Commander in Chief
   Commander of Militia
   Opinion Clause
   Pardon Power
   Treaty Clause
   Appointments Clause
   Inferior Officers
   Recess Appointments Clause
   State of the Union
   Recommendations Clause
   Convening of Congress
   Ambassadors
   Take Care Clause
   Commissions
   Standards for Impeachment

Article III: Judicial

Section 1

   The judicial Power of the United States shall be vested in one supreme
   Court, and in such inferior Courts as the Congress may from time to
   time ordain and establish. The Judges, both of the supreme and inferior
   Courts, shall hold their Offices during good Behaviour, and shall, at
   stated Times, receive for their Services a Compensation, which shall
   not be diminished during their Continuance in Office.

Section 2

   The judicial Power shall extend to all Cases, in Law and Equity,
   arising under this Constitution, the Laws of the United States, and
   Treaties made, or which shall be made, under their Authority; — to all
   Cases affecting Ambassadors, other public Ministers and Consuls; — to
   all Cases of admiralty and maritime Jurisdiction; — to Controversies to
   which the United States shall be a Party; — to Controversies between
   two or more States; — between a State and Citizens of another State; —
   between Citizens of different States; — between Citizens of the same
   State claiming Lands under Grants of different States, and between a
   State, or the Citizens thereof, and foreign States, Citizens or
   Subjects.

   In all Cases affecting Ambassadors, other public Ministers and Consuls,
   and those in which a State shall be Party, the supreme Court shall have
   original Jurisdiction. In all the other Cases before mentioned, the
   supreme Court shall have appellate Jurisdiction, both as to Law and
   Fact, with such Exceptions, and under such Regulations as the Congress
   shall make.

   The Trial of all Crimes, except in Cases of Impeachment, shall be by
   Jury; and such Trial shall be held in the State where the said Crimes
   shall have been committed; but when not committed within any State, the
   Trial shall be at such Place or Places as the Congress may by Law have
   directed.

Section 3

   Treason against the United States, shall consist only in levying War
   against them, or in adhering to their Enemies, giving them Aid and
   Comfort. No Person shall be convicted of Treason unless on the
   Testimony of two Witnesses to the same overt Act, or on Confession in
   open Court.

   The Congress shall have Power to declare the Punishment of Treason, but
   no Attainder of Treason shall work Corruption of Blood, or Forfeiture
   except during the Life of the Person attainted.
   x
   Essays on Article III
   A Note on Non-Article III Courts
   A Note on the Foreign Affairs Power
   Judicial Vesting Clause
   Supreme Court
   Good Behavior Clause
   Judicial Compensation Clause
   Judicial Power
   Treaties
   Ambassadors
   Admiralty
   Federal Party
   Interstate Disputes
   Citizen-State Diversity
   Diversity Clause
   Land Grant Jurisdiction Clause
   Original Jurisdiction
   Appellate Jurisdiction Clause
   Criminal Trials
   Treason
   Punishment of Treason

Article IV: States

Section 1

   Full Faith and Credit shall be given in each State to the public Acts,
   Records, and judicial Proceedings of every other State. And the
   Congress may by general Laws prescribe the Manner in which such Acts,
   Records and Proceedings shall be proved, and the Effect thereof.

Section 2

   The Citizens of each State shall be entitled to all Privileges and
   Immunities of Citizens in the several States.

   A Person charged in any State with Treason, Felony, or other Crime, who
   shall flee from Justice, and be found in another State, shall on Demand
   of the executive Authority of the State from which he fled, be
   delivered up, to be removed to the State having Jurisdiction of the
   Crime.

   No Person held to Service or Labour in one State, under the Laws
   thereof, escaping into another, shall, in Consequence of any Law or
   Regulation therein, be discharged from such Service or Labour, but
   shall be delivered up on Claim of the Party to whom such Service or
   Labour may be due.

Section 3

   New States may be admitted by the Congress into this Union; but no new
   States shall be formed or erected within the Jurisdiction of any other
   State; nor any State be formed by the Junction of two or more States,
   or Parts of States, without the Consent of the Legislatures of the
   States concerned as well as of the Congress.

   The Congress shall have Power to dispose of and make all needful Rules
   and Regulations respecting the Territory or other Property belonging to
   the United States; and nothing in this Constitution shall be so
   construed as to Prejudice any Claims of the United States, or of any
   particular State.

Section 4

   The United States shall guarantee to every State in this Union a
   Republican Form of Government, and shall protect each of them against
   Invasion; and on Application of the Legislature, or of the Executive
   (when the Legislature cannot be convened), against domestic Violence.
   x
   Essays on Article IV
   Full Faith and Credit Clause
   Privileges and Immunities Clause
   Interstate Rendition Clause
   Fugitive Slave Clause
   Admissions Clause
   Property Clause
   Claims
   Territories Clause
   Guarantee Clause

Article V: Amendment

   The Congress, whenever two thirds of both Houses shall deem it
   necessary, shall propose Amendments to this Constitution, or, on the
   Application of the Legislatures of two thirds of the several States,
   shall call a Convention for proposing Amendments, which, in either
   Case, shall be valid to all Intents and Purposes, as Part of this
   Constitution, when ratified by the Legislatures of three fourths of the
   several States, or by Conventions in three fourths thereof, as the one
   or the other Mode of Ratification may be proposed by the Congress;
   Provided that no Amendment which may be made prior to the Year One
   thousand eight hundred and eight shall in any Manner affect the first
   and fourth Clauses in the Ninth Section of the first Article; and that
   no State, without its Consent, shall be deprived of its equal Suffrage
   in the Senate.
   x
   Essays on Article V
   Amendments
   Prohibition on Amendment: Migration or Importation
   Prohibition on Amendment: Equal Suffrage in the Senate
   Convention for Proposing Amendments

Article VI: Supreme Law

   All Debts contracted and Engagements entered into, before the Adoption
   of this Constitution, shall be as valid against the United States under
   this Constitution, as under the Confederation.

   This Constitution, and the Laws of the United States which shall be
   made in Pursuance thereof; and all Treaties made, or which shall be
   made, under the Authority of the United States, shall be the supreme
   Law of the Land; and the Judges in every State shall be bound thereby,
   any Thing in the Constitution or Laws of any State to the Contrary
   notwithstanding.

   The Senators and Representatives before mentioned, and the Members of
   the several State Legislatures, and all executive and judicial
   Officers, both of the United States and of the several States, shall be
   bound by Oath or Affirmation, to support this Constitution; but no
   religious Test shall ever be required as a Qualification to any Office
   or public Trust under the United States.
   x
   Essays on Article VI
   Debt Assumption
   Supremacy Clause
   Oaths Clause
   Religious Test

Article VII: Ratification

   The Ratification of the Conventions of nine States, shall be sufficient
   for the Establishment of this Constitution between the States so
   ratifying the Same.

   Done in Convention by the Unanimous Consent of the States present the
   Seventeenth Day of September in the Year of our Lord one thousand seven
   hundred and Eighty seven and of the Independence of the United States
   of America the Twelfth In witness whereof We have hereunto subscribed
   our Names,

     G°. Washington Presidt. and deputy from Virginia

Delaware

     * Geo: Read
     * Gunning Bedford jun
     * John Dickinson
     * Richard Bassett
     * Jaco: Broom

Maryland

     * James McHenry
     * Dan of St Thos. Jenifer
     * Danl. Carroll

Virginia

     * John Blair
     * James Madison Jr.

North Carolina

     * Wm. Blount
     * Richd. Dobbs Spaight
     * Hu Williamson

South Carolina

     * J. Rutledge
     * Charles Cotesworth Pinckney
     * Charles Pinckney
     * Pierce Butler

Georgia

     * William Few
     * Abr Baldwin

New Hampshire

     * John Langdon
     * Nicholas Gilman

Massachusetts

     * Nathaniel Gorham
     * rufus King

Connecticut

     * Wm. Saml. Johnson
     * Roger Sherman

New York

     * Alexander Hamilton

New Jersey

     * Wil: Livingston
     * David Brearley
     * Wm. Paterson
     * Jona: Dayton

Pennsylvania

     * B Franklin
     * Thomas Mifflin
     * Robt. Morris
     * Geo. Clymer
     * Thos. FitzSimons
     * Jared Ingersoll
     * James Wilson
     * Gouv Morris

     Attest William Jackson, Secretary


   x
   Essays on Article VII
   Ratification Clause
   Attestation Clause

The Amendments

     * 1
     * 2
     * 3
     * 4
     * 5
     * 6
     * 7
     * 8
     * 9
     * 10
     * 11
     * 12
     * 13
     * 14
     * 15
     * 16
     * 17
     * 18
     * 19
     * 20
     * 21
     * 22
     * 23
     * 24
     * 25
     * 26
     * 27

Amendment I

   Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or
   prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of
   speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to
   assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances.

Amendment II

   A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free
   State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be
   infringed.

Amendment III

   No Soldier shall, in time of peace be quartered in any house, without
   the consent of the Owner, nor in time of war, but in a manner to be
   prescribed by law.

Amendment IV

   The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers,
   and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be
   violated, and no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause,
   supported by Oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place
   to be searched, and the persons or things to be seized.

Amendment V

   No person shall be held to answer for a capital, or otherwise infamous
   crime, unless on a presentment or indictment of a Grand Jury, except in
   cases arising in the land or naval forces, or in the Militia, when in
   actual service in time of War or public danger; nor shall any person be
   subject for the same offence to be twice put in jeopardy of life or
   limb; nor shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness
   against himself, nor be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without
   due process of law; nor shall private property be taken for public use,
   without just compensation.

Amendment VI

   In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right to a
   speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury of the State and district
   wherein the crime shall have been committed, which district shall have
   been previously ascertained by law, and to be informed of the nature
   and cause of the accusation; to be confronted with the witnesses
   against him; to have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his
   favor, and to have the Assistance of Counsel for his defence.

Amendment VII

   In Suits at common law, where the value in controversy shall exceed
   twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shall be preserved, and no
   fact tried by a jury, shall be otherwise re-examined in any Court of
   the United States, than according to the rules of the common law.

Amendment VIII

   Excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive fines imposed, nor
   cruel and unusual punishments inflicted.

Amendment IX

   The enumeration in the Constitution, of certain rights, shall not be
   construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people.

Amendment X

   The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor
   prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States
   respectively, or to the people.

Amendment XI

   The Judicial power of the United States shall not be construed to
   extend to any suit in law or equity, commenced or prosecuted against
   one of the United States by Citizens of another State, or by Citizens
   or Subjects of any Foreign State.

Amendment XII

   The Electors shall meet in their respective states and vote by ballot
   for President and Vice-President, one of whom, at least, shall not be
   an inhabitant of the same state with themselves; they shall name in
   their ballots the person voted for as President, and in distinct
   ballots the person voted for as Vice-President, and they shall make
   distinct lists of all persons voted for as President, and of all
   persons voted for as Vice-President, and of the number of votes for
   each, which lists they shall sign and certify, and transmit sealed to
   the seat of the government of the United States, directed to the
   President of the Senate; — the President of the Senate shall, in the
   presence of the Senate and House of Representatives, open all the
   certificates and the votes shall then be counted; — The person having
   the greatest number of votes for President, shall be the President, if
   such number be a majority of the whole number of Electors appointed;
   and if no person have such majority, then from the persons having the
   highest numbers not exceeding three on the list of those voted for as
   President, the House of Representatives shall choose immediately, by
   ballot, the President. But in choosing the President, the votes shall
   be taken by states, the representation from each state having one vote;
   a quorum for this purpose shall consist of a member or members from
   two-thirds of the states, and a majority of all the states shall be
   necessary to a choice. And if the House of Representatives shall not
   choose a President whenever the right of choice shall devolve upon
   them, before the fourth day of March next following, then the
   Vice-President shall act as President, as in case of the death or other
   constitutional disability of the President. — The person having the
   greatest number of votes as Vice-President, shall be the
   Vice-President, if such number be a majority of the whole number of
   Electors appointed, and if no person have a majority, then from the two
   highest numbers on the list, the Senate shall choose the
   Vice-President; a quorum for the purpose shall consist of two-thirds of
   the whole number of Senators, and a majority of the whole number shall
   be necessary to a choice. But no person constitutionally ineligible to
   the office of President shall be eligible to that of Vice-President of
   the United States.

Amendment XIII

Section 1

   Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for
   crime whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, shall exist
   within the United States, or any place subject to their jurisdiction.

Section 2

   Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate
   legislation.

Amendment XIV

Section 1

   All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to
   the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the
   State wherein they reside. No State shall make or enforce any law which
   shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United
   States; nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or
   property, without due process of law; nor deny to any person within its
   jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.

Section 2

   Representatives shall be apportioned among the several States according
   to their respective numbers, counting the whole number of persons in
   each State, excluding Indians not taxed. But when the right to vote at
   any election for the choice of electors for President and
   Vice-President of the United States, Representatives in Congress, the
   Executive and Judicial officers of a State, or the members of the
   Legislature thereof, is denied to any of the male inhabitants of such
   State, being twenty-one years of age, and citizens of the United
   States, or in any way abridged, except for participation in rebellion,
   or other crime, the basis of representation therein shall be reduced in
   the proportion which the number of such male citizens shall bear to the
   whole number of male citizens twenty-one years of age in such State.

Section 3

   No person shall be a Senator or Representative in Congress, or elector
   of President and Vice-President, or hold any office, civil or military,
   under the United States, or under any State, who, having previously
   taken an oath, as a member of Congress, or as an officer of the United
   States, or as a member of any State legislature, or as an executive or
   judicial officer of any State, to support the Constitution of the
   United States, shall have engaged in insurrection or rebellion against
   the same, or given aid or comfort to the enemies thereof. But Congress
   may by a vote of two-thirds of each House, remove such disability.

Section 4

   The validity of the public debt of the United States, authorized by
   law, including debts incurred for payment of pensions and bounties for
   services in suppressing insurrection or rebellion, shall not be
   questioned. But neither the United States nor any State shall assume or
   pay any debt or obligation incurred in aid of insurrection or rebellion
   against the United States, or any claim for the loss or emancipation of
   any slave; but all such debts, obligations and claims shall be held
   illegal and void.

Section 5

   The Congress shall have the power to enforce, by appropriate
   legislation, the provisions of this article.

Amendment XV

Section 1

   The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied
   or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of race,
   color, or previous condition of servitude —

Section 2

   The Congress shall have the power to enforce this article by
   appropriate legislation.

Amendment XVI

   The Congress shall have power to lay and collect taxes on incomes, from
   whatever source derived, without apportionment among the several
   States, and without regard to any census or enumeration.

Amendment XVII

   The Senate of the United States shall be composed of two Senators from
   each State, elected by the people thereof, for six years; and each
   Senator shall have one vote. The electors in each State shall have the
   qualifications requisite for electors of the most numerous branch of
   the State legislatures.

   When vacancies happen in the representation of any State in the Senate,
   the executive authority of such State shall issue writs of election to
   fill such vacancies: Provided, That the legislature of any State may
   empower the executive thereof to make temporary appointments until the
   people fill the vacancies by election as the legislature may direct.

   This amendment shall not be so construed as to affect the election or
   term of any Senator chosen before it becomes valid as part of the
   Constitution.

Amendment XVIII

Section 1

   After one year from the ratification of this article the manufacture,
   sale, or transportation of intoxicating liquors within, the importation
   thereof into, or the exportation thereof from the United States and all
   territory subject to the jurisdiction thereof for beverage purposes is
   hereby prohibited.

Section 2

   The Congress and the several States shall have concurrent power to
   enforce this article by appropriate legislation.

Section 3

   This article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been ratified as
   an amendment to the Constitution by the legislatures of the several
   States, as provided in the Constitution, within seven years from the
   date of the submission hereof to the States by the Congress.

Amendment XIX

   The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied
   or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of sex.

   Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate
   legislation.

Amendment XX

Section 1

   The terms of the President and the Vice President shall end at noon on
   the 20th day of January, and the terms of Senators and Representatives
   at noon on the 3d day of January, of the years in which such terms
   would have ended if this article had not been ratified; and the terms
   of their successors shall then begin.

Section 2

   The Congress shall assemble at least once in every year, and such
   meeting shall begin at noon on the 3d day of January, unless they shall
   by law appoint a different day.

Section 3

   If, at the time fixed for the beginning of the term of the President,
   the President elect shall have died, the Vice President elect shall
   become President. If a President shall not have been chosen before the
   time fixed for the beginning of his term, or if the President elect
   shall have failed to qualify, then the Vice President elect shall act
   as President until a President shall have qualified; and the Congress
   may by law provide for the case wherein neither a President elect nor a
   Vice President shall have qualified, declaring who shall then act as
   President, or the manner in which one who is to act shall be selected,
   and such person shall act accordingly until a President or Vice
   President shall have qualified.

Section 4

   The Congress may by law provide for the case of the death of any of the
   persons from whom the House of Representatives may choose a President
   whenever the right of choice shall have devolved upon them, and for the
   case of the death of any of the persons from whom the Senate may choose
   a Vice President whenever the right of choice shall have devolved upon
   them.

Section 5

   Sections 1 and 2 shall take effect on the 15th day of October following
   the ratification of this article.

Section 6

   This article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been ratified as
   an amendment to the Constitution by the legislatures of three-fourths
   of the several States within seven years from the date of its
   submission.

Amendment XXI

Section 1

   The eighteenth article of amendment to the Constitution of the United
   States is hereby repealed.

Section 2

   The transportation or importation into any State, Territory, or
   Possession of the United States for delivery or use therein of
   intoxicating liquors, in violation of the laws thereof, is hereby
   prohibited.

Section 3

   This article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been ratified as
   an amendment to the Constitution by conventions in the several States,
   as provided in the Constitution, within seven years from the date of
   the submission hereof to the States by the Congress.

Amendment XXII

Section 1

   No person shall be elected to the office of the President more than
   twice, and no person who has held the office of President, or acted as
   President, for more than two years of a term to which some other person
   was elected President shall be elected to the office of President more
   than once. But this Article shall not apply to any person holding the
   office of President when this Article was proposed by Congress, and
   shall not prevent any person who may be holding the office of
   President, or acting as President, during the term within which this
   Article becomes operative from holding the office of President or
   acting as President during the remainder of such term.

Section 2

   This article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been ratified as
   an amendment to the Constitution by the legislatures of three-fourths
   of the several States within seven years from the date of its
   submission to the States by the Congress.

Amendment XXIII

Section 1

   The District constituting the seat of Government of the United States
   shall appoint in such manner as Congress may direct:

   A number of electors of President and Vice President equal to the whole
   number of Senators and Representatives in Congress to which the
   District would be entitled if it were a State, but in no event more
   than the least populous State; they shall be in addition to those
   appointed by the States, but they shall be considered, for the purposes
   of the election of President and Vice President, to be electors
   appointed by a State; and they shall meet in the District and perform
   such duties as provided by the twelfth article of amendment.

Section 2

   The Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate
   legislation.

Amendment XXIV

Section 1

   The right of citizens of the United States to vote in any primary or
   other election for President or Vice President, for electors for
   President or Vice President, or for Senator or Representative in
   Congress, shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or any
   State by reason of failure to pay poll tax or other tax.

Section 2

   The Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate
   legislation.

Amendment XXV

Section 1

   In case of the removal of the President from office or of his death or
   resignation, the Vice President shall become President.

Section 2

   Whenever there is a vacancy in the office of the Vice President, the
   President shall nominate a Vice President who shall take office upon
   confirmation by a majority vote of both Houses of Congress.

Section 3

   Whenever the President transmits to the President pro tempore of the
   Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives his written
   declaration that he is unable to discharge the powers and duties of his
   office, and until he transmits to them a written declaration to the
   contrary, such powers and duties shall be discharged by the Vice
   President as Acting President.

Section 4

   Whenever the Vice President and a majority of either the principal
   officers of the executive departments or of such other body as Congress
   may by law provide, transmit to the President pro tempore of the Senate
   and the Speaker of the House of Representatives their written
   declaration that the President is unable to discharge the powers and
   duties of his office, the Vice President shall immediately assume the
   powers and duties of the office as Acting President.

   Thereafter, when the President transmits to the President pro tempore
   of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives his
   written declaration that no inability exists, he shall resume the
   powers and duties of his office unless the Vice President and a
   majority of either the principal officers of the executive department
   or of such other body as Congress may by law provide, transmit within
   four days to the President pro tempore of the Senate and the Speaker of
   the House of Representatives their written declaration that the
   President is unable to discharge the powers and duties of his office.
   Thereupon Congress shall decide the issue, assembling within
   forty-eight hours for that purpose if not in session. If the Congress,
   within twenty-one days after receipt of the latter written declaration,
   or, if Congress is not in session, within twenty-one days after
   Congress is required to assemble, determines by two-thirds vote of both
   Houses that the President is unable to discharge the powers and duties
   of his office, the Vice President shall continue to discharge the same
   as Acting President; otherwise, the President shall resume the powers
   and duties of his office.

Amendment XXVI

Section 1

   The right of citizens of the United States, who are eighteen years of
   age or older, to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United
   States or by any State on account of age.

Section 2

   The Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate
   legislation.

Amendment XXVII

   No law, varying the compensation for the services of the Senators and
   Representatives, shall take effect, until an election of
   representatives shall have intervened.
   x
   Essays on The Amendments
   Establishment of Religion
   Free Exercise of Religion
   Freedom of Speech and of the Press
   Freedom of Petition
   To Keep and Bear Arms
   Quartering of Troops
   Searches and Seizures
   Warrant Clause
   Grand Jury Requirement
   Grand Jury Exception
   Double Jeopardy
   Self-Incrimination
   Due Process Clause
   Takings Clause
   Speedy Trial Clause
   Public Trial
   Jury Trial
   Arraignment Clause
   Confrontation Clause
   Compulsory Process Clause
   Right-to-Counsel Clause
   Right to Jury in Civil Cases
   Reexamination Clause
   Cruel and Unusual Punishment
   Rights Retained by the People
   Reserved Powers of the States
   Suits Against a State
   Electoral College
   Abolition of Slavery
   Suffrage—Race
   Income Tax
   Vacancies in the Senate
   Prohibition
   Suffrage—Sex
   Presidential Terms
   Repeal of Prohibition
   Presidential Term Limit
   Electors for the District of Columbia
   Poll Taxes
   Presidential Succession
   Suffrage—Age
   Congressional Compensation
   Right of Assembly
   Excessive Bail
   Excessive Fines
   Popular Election of Senators
   Citizenship
   State Action
   Privileges or Immunities
   Due Process Clause
   Equal Protection
   Apportionment of Representatives
   Disqualification for Rebellion
   Debts Incurred During Rebellion
   Enforcement Clause

Understanding the Guide

About This Guide

   The Heritage Guide to the Constitution is intended to provide a brief
   and accurate explanation of each clause of the Constitution as
   envisioned by the Framers and as applied in contemporary law. Its
   particular aim is to provide lawmakers with a means to defend their
   role and to fulfill their responsibilities in our constitutional order.
   Read More

What the Constitution Means

   The Constitution of the United States has endured for over two
   centuries. It remains the object of reverence for nearly all Americans
   and an object of admiration by peoples around the world. William
   Gladstone was right in 1878 when he described the U.S. Constitution as
   "the most wonderful work ever struck off at a given time by the brain
   and purpose of man."
   Read More

How It Was Formed

   The creation of the United States Constitution—John Adams described the
   Constitutional Convention as "the greatest single effort of national
   deliberation that the world has ever seen"—was a seminal event in the
   history of human liberty. The story of that creation in the summer of
   1787 is itself a significant aspect in determining the meaning of the
   document.
   Read More

Contributors

   These are the contributors to The Heritage Guide to the Constitution.
   Read More

The Originalist Perspective

   Written constitutionalism implies that those who make, interpret, and
   enforce the law ought to be guided by the meaning of the United States
   Constitution—the supreme law of the land—as it was originally written.
   This view came to be seriously eroded over the course of the last
   century with the rise of the theory of the Constitution as a "living
   document" with no fixed meaning, subject to changing interpretations
   according to the spirit of the times.
   Read More

   Purchase a Copy

You can order a copy of the Heritage Constitution

Secondary Navigation

     * About Heritage
     * Events
     * Renew
     * Donate
     * Press
     * Contact

   Subscribe to email updates

   Follow us
   Heritage Instagram Heritage YouTube
   Privacy Policy Copyright

   © 2024, The Heritage Foundation

   [insights.gif?rand=[cache_buster]t=0pixt=resonateadvkey=0013000000R6
   OopAAFopptykey=THEF0617Cevkey=100200825evtype=custom]</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-10">
<text>   #alternate alternate alternate IndieWire Feed IndieWire » General News
   Feed IndieWire » News Feed

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-W3K4Q7

   ×

   [p?c1=2c2=6035310c3=c4=c5=c6=c15=cv=2.0cj=1]

   Got a Tip?
   Newsletters
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)

     News
     Film
     TV
     Awards
     Video

   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
   Read Next: 2024 Oscars: Best Live Action Short Predictions
   Newsletters
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
   Search for:
   ____________________ Search
   Search for: ____________________ Submit
   (BUTTON)

   News
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
     Breaking News
     General News
     Festivals
     Box Office
     Business
     Trailers
     Analysis
     Obituary

   Features
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
     Interviews
     The Craft
     Best Of
     Commentary
     Animation
     General

   Awards
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
     Thompson on Hollywood
     Awards Calendar
     Oscar Predictions
     Emmy Predictions
     Consider This
     Awards Spotlight
     Craft Considerations
     Deep Dive
     Industry

   Criticism
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
     Movies
     Shows
     Culture

   Podcasts
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
     Screen Talk
     Filmmaker Toolkit Podcast

   About IndieWire
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
     IndieWire Masthead
     How to Pitch IndieWire

   Follow Us
     * facebook
     * twitter
     * instagram
     * pinterest
     * youtube

   Alerts  Newsletters
   Email address to subscribe to newsletter. ____________________
   (BUTTON) Subscribe

   By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our
   Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information
   to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA
   Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

     About
     Advertise with IndieWire
     IndieWire Masthead
     Contact Us

   IndieWire is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2024 IndieWire
   Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved.

     Home
     News
     General News

‘Succession’ Fans Can Now Buy the ‘Ludicrously Capacious’ Handbag, Roman’s
Walmart Outfit, and More at Auction

   Not included: The L to the OG custom jacket, alas.
   By Samantha Bergeson
   (BUTTON)
   Samantha Bergeson Writer Indiewire

Samantha Bergeson

   More stories by Samantha
   Margot Robbie: Directing Is an ‘Ambition of Mine’
   Read more
   Yorgos Lanthimos Says ‘Kinds of Kindness’ ‘Was Almost Like Making Three
   Films’
   Read more
   Alamo Drafthouse Rings in 2024 with Retro Series: ‘The Matrix,’ ‘Cruel
   Intentions,’ and Nearly 150 More Films
   Read more
   December 23, 2023 12:00 pm
   Succession Season 4 Episode 4 Shiv Kendall Roman
   "Succession"
   Courtesy of David M. Russell / HBO
   Share
     * Share on Facebook
     * Tweet
     * Share to Flipboard
     * Share on LinkedIn
     * (BUTTON)
       Show more sharing options
     * Submit to Reddit
     * Pin it
     * Post to Tumblr
     * Email
     * Print This Page
     * Share on WhatsApp

   Sure, “Succession” may have ended earlier this year, but that doesn’t
   mean Waystar Royco doesn’t have one last deal to close.

   The viral Emmy-winning HBO series is at the center of an upcoming
   auction to be held by Heritage auction house January 13. Hundreds of
   props, set decorations, and costumes from the show will be available
   for purchase through Heritage Screenbid in conjunction with HBO as part
   of a special pre-Emmys “Succession” Showcase Auction.

   “This is a singular opportunity for fans to own something iconic from
   one of their favorite characters or sets,” Heritage Screenbid’s
   managing director Jax Strobel said. “Who wouldn’t want to own the
   ludicrously capricious bag or a pair of Kendall or Greg’s sunglasses —
   or, for that matter, all of it? And, of course, who ever imagined they
   could play their own game of Boar on the Floor, complete with prop
   sausages? Truly, there is something for everyone who loved this show,
   which is anyone who watched a second of ‘Succession.'”
   Related Stories
   Feud: Capote Vs. The Swans
   ‘Feud: Capote Vs. The Swans’ Trailer: Truman Capote Betrays Confidantes
   in Twisted Anthology
   Visitors wearing emblematic Mickey and Minnie Mouse ears look on, in
   front of the Sleeping Beauty-inspired castle in Disneyland Park at
   Disneyland Paris, in Marne-la-Vallee, east of Paris, on October 16,
   2023. The Walt Disney Company celebrates its 100th anniversary on
   October 16, marking the occasion with the release of a short film
   featuring more than 500 characters from 85 films. Disneyland Paris
   marked that anniversary with a parade showcasing a hundred of Disney's
   characters. (Photo by Ian LANGSDON / AFP) (Photo by IAN LANGSDON/AFP
   via Getty Images)
   Everyone Has New Nominees for Disney’s Board

   The infamous “Ludicrously Capacious Bag,” aka a $3,000 Burberry tote,
   will be among the hot ticket items, as well as Kendall Roy’s (Jeremy
   Strong) sneaker collection and the wedding tux worn by Connor (Alan
   Ruck) during his ill-fated nuptials. Luxury brands like Lanvin, Canali,
   Tom Ford, Alexander McQueen, Brioni, and Max Mara are the staple pieces
   found in the Roy family’s closet, and now any bidders’ as well.

   The subversive sartorial decision to clothe Roman (Kieran Culkin) in a
   Walmart t-shirt when he left to mourn the loss of his father Logan
   (Brian Cox) at his Barbados home became iconic costuming; that Walmart
   outfit worn by Culkin can also be bid on.

   Outside of costumes, props like the note Shiv (Sarah Snook) read to the
   media upon Logan’s death will be auctioned, as well as the pink note
   cards Roman used to pen the eulogy to Logan. The fictional covers of
   Forbes, Vanity Fair, and New York Magazine that featured the rise and
   fall (and, arguably, rise again) of the Waystar Royco empire can also
   be bought, plus characters’ company ID badges and the furnishings of
   Logan’s office. Plus, the scorpion gift that Shiv found repulsive is up
   for auction just in time for Valentine’s Day.

   “Succession” made history with the most 2024 Golden Globe nominations
   for a TV series. The show is also nominated for 27 2024 Emmy Awards,
   including 14 acting nods for the cast.

   Read More:
     Succession
     TV

   Daily Headlines
   Daily Headlines covering Film, TV and more.
   Subscribe
   More from IndieWire
   Primetime Emmy Awards
   Emmys
   The WGA Wins Again: Fox’s Emmys Will Include Writing for Variety Series
   Margot Robbie at Deadline Contenders Film: Los Angeles
   News
   Margot Robbie: Directing Is an ‘Ambition of Mine’
   NEW YORK, NEW YORK - DECEMBER 06: Yorgos Lanthimos attends the premiere
   of "Poor Things" at DGA Theater on December 06, 2023 in New York City.
   (Photo by Taylor Hill/FilmMagic)
   News
   Yorgos Lanthimos Says ‘Kinds of Kindness’ ‘Was Almost Like Making Three
   Films’
   BARBIE, from left: America Ferrera, Ariana Greenblatt, Margot Robbie,
   2023. © Warner Bos. / Courtesy Everett Collection
   News
   ‘Barbie’ Will Now Vie for Adapted Screenplay Oscar Despite Campaign for
   Original
   CRUEL INTENTIONS, Ryan Phillippe, Reese Witherspoon, 1999
   News
   Alamo Drafthouse Rings in 2024 with Retro Series: ‘The Matrix,’ ‘Cruel
   Intentions,’ and Nearly 150 More Films
   Feud: Capote Vs. The Swans
   Breaking News
   ‘Feud: Capote Vs. The Swans’ Trailer: Truman Capote Betrays Confidantes
   in Twisted Anthology
   Daily Headlines
   Daily Headlines covering Film, TV and more.
   Email address to subscribe to newsletter. ____________________
   (BUTTON) Subscribe

   By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our
   Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information
   to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA
   Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
   Must Read
   'Succession' Lands Props, Costumes Auction
   Criticism
   The 25 Best Movies of 2023
   The Best TV Shows of 2023 The Bear Dead Ringers Tim Robinson The Last
   of us
   Features
   The Best TV Shows of 2023
   'Succession' Lands Props, Costumes Auction
   Features
   The 15 Best First Features of 2023
   More From IndieWire
   How to Have Sex
   Best of 2023
   The 16 Best Films of 2024 We’ve Already Seen
   Most anticipated movies 2024
   Make Way for Tomorrow
   50 Movies We Can’t Wait to See in 2024

Most Popular

   1.
   How to Watch 2024 Times Square New Year's Eve Ball Drop Free Online
   2.
   New Photos Show That Meghan Markle  Prince Harry’s Daughter Lilibet Is
   No Longer Her Papa’s Lookalike
   3.
   Where to Stream 'Dick Clark's New Year's Rockin' Eve' 2024 Online
   4.
   Actor-Painter Pierce Brosnan Headed for Court, Nazi-Looted Painting
   Returned to Heir of Dealer: Morning Links for December 29, 2023

You may also like

   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
   ‘Killers of the Flower Moon’ Gets Streaming Date on Apple TV+
   ‘Killers of the Flower Moon’ Gets Streaming Date on Apple TV+
   Elvis Presley Hologram to Perform on London Stage Later This Year
   Elvis Presley Hologram to Perform on London Stage Later This Year
   Luke Littler Fever Inspires Sky To Greenlight ‘Darts’ Premium Doc
   Series From ‘Coleen Rooney: The Real Wagatha Story’ Producer
   Luke Littler Fever Inspires Sky To Greenlight ‘Darts’ Premium Doc
   Series From ‘Coleen Rooney: The Real Wagatha Story’ Producer
   How to Watch Golden Bachelor Wedding Online: Livestream Gerry Turner
   and Theresa Nist Tying the Knot!
   How to Watch Golden Bachelor Wedding Online: Livestream Gerry Turner
   and Theresa Nist Tying the Knot!
   Top 24 Sports Business Follows in 2024, on X and Beyond
   Top 24 Sports Business Follows in 2024, on X and Beyond

   IndieWire
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
     About
     Team
     How to Pitch Stories and Articles to IndieWire
     Advertise with IndieWire
     Contact Us
     Accessibility Statement
     Variety Media

   Legal
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
     Terms of Use
     Privacy Policy
     California Privacy Rights
     EU Privacy Preferences
     Your Privacy Choices
     Ad Choices

   Follow Us
     * facebook
     * twitter
     * instagram
     * pinterest
     * youtube

   Newsletter Sign Up
   Email address to subscribe to newsletter. ____________________
   (BUTTON) Subscribe

   By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our
   Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information
   to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA
   Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
   Have a Tip?
   Send us a tip using our anonymous form.
   Send us a tip

   IndieWire is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2024 IndieWire
   Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved.
   (BUTTON) Our Sites

     Artnews
     BGR
     Billboard
     Deadline
     Fairchild Media
     Footwear News
     Gold Derby
     IndieWire
     Robb Report
     Rolling Stone
     SheKnows
     She Media
     Soaps
     Sourcing Journal
     Sportico
     Spy
     StyleCaster
     The Hollywood Reporter
     TVLine
     Variety
     Vibe
     WWD

   ad

   Quantcast</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-11">
<text>   ____________________ (BUTTON)
     * Games
     * Featured
     * Pop culture
     * Writing tips
     *

   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
     * Games
          + Daily Crossword
          + Word Puzzle
          + Word Finder
          + All games
     * Featured
          + Word of the Day
          + Synonym of the Day
          + Word of the Year
          + New words
          + Language stories
          + All featured
     * Pop culture
          + Slang
          + Emoji
          + Memes
          + Acronyms
          + Gender and sexuality
          + All pop culture
     * Writing tips
          + Grammar Coach™
          + Writing hub
          + Grammar essentials
          + Commonly confused
          + All writing tips
     * Account

heritage

   [ her-i-tij ] (BUTTON) show ipa
   (BUTTON) [0b29c1db2f0b1c9452c7.svg]
   (BUTTON)
   See synonyms for heritage on Thesaurus.com
     __________________________________________________________________

   noun
    1. something that is handed down from the past, as a tradition: a
       national heritage of honor, pride, and courage.
    2. something that comes or belongs to one by reason of birth; an
       inherited lot or portion: a heritage of poverty and suffering.

    3. something reserved for one: the heritage of the righteous.
    4. Law.
          + something that has been or may be inherited by legal descent
            or succession.
          + any property, especially land, that devolves by right of
            inheritance.

   (BUTTON) See more
   adjective
    5. noting or relating to a product, place, etc., that evokes a
       nostalgic sense of tradition or history: visitors to a heritage
       site in the Middle East.
    6. noting or relating to an older, traditional breed of animal or
       plant: raising pure-breed heritage hogs.: Compare heirloom (def.
       3).

Origin of heritage

   ^1
   First recorded in 1175–1225; Middle English, from Middle French, from
   herit(er) “to inherit” + -age -age; see heir

synonym study For heritage

   2. See inheritance.

Other words for heritage

   2 estate, patrimony
   See synonyms for heritage on Thesaurus.com

Words Nearby heritage

     * Hergesheimer
     * Hering
     * heriot
     * Herisau
     * heritable
     * heritage
     * heritage language
     * heritage learner
     * heritage speaker
     * heritance
     * heritor

   Dictionary.com Unabridged Based on the Random House Unabridged
   Dictionary, © Random House, Inc. 2024

How to use heritage in a sentence

     * Rio Tinto Group Chief Executive Officer Jean-Sebastien Jacques will
       step down amid an investor backlash over the destruction of ancient
       Aboriginal heritage sites in Australia.
       The CEO of mining giant Rio Tinto is forced out following the
       destruction of an ancient archeological site | Bernhard Warner |
       September 11, 2020 | Fortune
     * One recent study estimates that only 1% of research on the impacts
       of climate change on heritage is related to Africa.
       Some of Africa’s most important heritage sites will be lost to
       climate change without intervention | Nick Brooks | August 20, 2020
       | Quartz
     * The movement has been led by young Kumeyaay women, who say the
       government has ignored evidence of the cultural heritage sites
       they’re now building over.
       Border Report: Kumeyaay Band Sues to Stop Border Wall Construction
       | Maya Srikrishnan | August 17, 2020 | Voice of San Diego
     * Minnesota spends around $39 million on the arts and cultural
       heritage every year.
       Can the Arts Save Rural America From the Recession? | Charu Kasturi
       | August 16, 2020 | Ozy
     * Jim accidentally pinned a young bicyclist between the bumper of his
       Chevy C10 and a heritage oak in Palo Alto, California.
       When Jesus Freaks Go Bad | Eugene Robinson | August 6, 2020 | Ozy

     * However, being of Arab heritage and Muslim, I'd really love to see
       an Arab or Muslim James Bond.
       Rush Limbaugh’s Fear of a Black James Bond | Dean Obeidallah |
       December 29, 2014 | THE DAILY BEAST
     * There are six UNESCO biosphere reserves and nine UNESCO World
       heritage sites.
       Goodbye, Bahamas. Hello, Havana! | Clive Irving | December 18, 2014
       | THE DAILY BEAST
     * An Australian woman in her late twenties told me she was an
       “honorary Jew” with no actual Jewish heritage.
       I Ate Potato Pancakes Til I Plotzed | Emily Shire | December 17,
       2014 | THE DAILY BEAST
     * A more recent phenomenon in the political universe is politicians
       of Hispanic heritage who are not fluent in Spanish.
       Which Potential Candidates Speak Spanish—and Will It Matter? |
       Eleanor Clift | December 14, 2014 | THE DAILY BEAST
     * Virtually all the southwestern gangs of Mexican heritage (Surenos
       or Southsiders) are under their control.
       The Mexican Mafia Is the Daddy of All Street Gangs | Seth Ferranti
       | December 11, 2014 | THE DAILY BEAST
     * He knew that there was cardiac trouble in his family, but he had
       never realized before the meaning of his heritage.
       Dope | Sax Rohmer
     * It was only Dutch, a foolish charm, a heritage of barbarity and
       ignorance, but I was too weary to protest.
       The Soldier of the Valley | Nelson Lloyd
     * A desire for happiness is our common heritage, he was saying in his
       richly melodious voice.
       The Fifth String   | John Philip Sousa
     * God has given the American people a goodly heritage—the fairest the
       world has ever seen.
       Portrait and Biography of Parson Brownlow, The Tennessee Patriot |
       William Gannaway Brownlow
     * And if the monumental record of their virtues be a just one, why
       did they heirloom on posterity this bitter heritage of swearing?
       A Cursory History of Swearing | Julian Sharman

   (BUTTON) See More Examples

British Dictionary definitions for heritage

   heritage

   / (ˈhɛrɪtɪdʒ) /
     __________________________________________________________________

   noun
    1. something inherited at birth, such as personal characteristics,
       status, and possessions
    2. anything that has been transmitted from the past or handed down by
       tradition

    3.
          + the evidence of the past, such as historical sites, buildings,
            and the unspoilt natural environment, considered collectively
            as the inheritance of present-day society
          + (as modifier; cap. as part of name): Bannockburn Heritage
            Centre
    4. something that is reserved for a particular person or group or the
       outcome of an action, way of life, etc: the sea was their heritage;
       the heritage of violence
    5. law any property, esp land, that by law has descended or may
       descend to an heir
    6. Bible
          + the Israelites regarded as belonging inalienably to God
          + the land of Canaan regarded as God's gift to the Israelites

   (BUTTON) See more

Origin of heritage

   ^1
   C13: from Old French; see heir

   Collins English Dictionary - Complete  Unabridged 2012 Digital Edition
   © William Collins Sons  Co. Ltd. 1979, 1986 © HarperCollins Publishers
   1998, 2000, 2003, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2009, 2012
   carambola ad carousel

   Browse
     #
     aa
     bb
     cc
     dd
     ee
     ff
     gg
     hh
     ii
     jj
     kk
     ll
     mm
     nn
     oo
     pp
     qq
     rr
     ss
     tt
     uu
     vv
     ww
     xx
     yy
     zz

   [ab34ff65bbd3138890c7.svg] [e8d8d7d566d7f7f23acd.svg]
   [63571b52499ec491a39b.svg]
     About
     Careers
     Shop

     Contact us
     Advertise with us
     Cookies, terms,  privacy
     (BUTTON) Do not sell my info

   Follow us

   Get the Word of the Day every day!
   ____________________ (BUTTON) Sign up

   By clicking "Sign Up", you are accepting Dictionary.com Terms 
   Conditions and Privacy Policies.
   My account
   © 2023 Dictionary.com, LLC</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-12">
<text>   #Merriam-Webster Dictionary

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WW4KHXF

   (BUTTON) Menu Toggle

   (BUTTON)
   heritage____________ (BUTTON) (BUTTON)

     * Games  Quizzes
     * Games  Quizzes
     * Word of the Day
     * Grammar
     * Wordplay
     * Word Finder
     * Thesaurus
     * Join MWU
     *
          + Shop
          + Books link icon
          + Merch link icon
     *
          + Settings
          + My Words
          + Recents
          + Account
          + Log Out
     * More
          + Thesaurus
          + Join MWU link icon
          + Shop
          + Books link icon
          + Merch link icon
          + Log In
          + Username
          + My Words
          + Recents
          + Account
          + Log Out

   Est. 1828

   (BUTTON)
   Dictionary
     * Definition
     * Definition
     *
     * Synonyms
     * Example Sentences
     * Word History
     * Entries Near

     *
          + Cite this EntryCitation
          + Share
          + Kids DefinitionKids
          + More from M-W
       Show more
     * Show more
          + Citation
          + Share
          + Kids
          + More from M-W

     * (BUTTON) Save Word
          + To save this word, you'll need to log in.
            Log In

   (BUTTON)

heritage

noun

   her·​i·​tage ˈher-ə-tij  How to pronounce heritage (audio)
   ˈhe-rə-
   Synonyms of heritage next
   1
   : property that descends to an heir
   2
   a
   : something transmitted by or acquired from a predecessor : legacy,
   inheritance
   proud of her Chinese heritage
   a rich heritage of folklore
   The battlefields are part of our heritage and should be preserved.
   b
   : tradition
   the party's heritage of secularism
   3
   : something possessed as a result of one's natural situation or birth :
   birthright
   the heritage of natural freedom was long since cast away— V. L.
   Parrington

Synonyms

     * convention
     * custom
     * prescription
     * rubric
     * rule
     * tradition

   See all Synonyms  Antonyms in Thesaurus

Examples of heritage in a Sentence

   hospitality is a cherished Southern heritage this farm is my heritage
   from my father, as it was for him from his father
   Recent Examples on the Web Mutton’s distinctive heritage, retained even
   as Europeans were encroaching on the Pacific Northwest, is particularly
   striking. — Meghan Bartels, Scientific American, 18 Dec. 2023 While
   Christmas is widely commemorated, the month also features a tapestry of
   festivities that highlight the rich cultural heritage, unity and
   resilience of Black people across the globe. — Melissa Noel, Essence,
   18 Dec. 2023 Remedy’s games are increasingly leaning into the studio’s
   Finnish heritage, something that fills Lake with immense pride. — Gene
   Park, Washington Post, 16 Dec. 2023 Over the next 11 months, the couple
   had several conversations with the Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities
   of Egypt, which aims to protect and preserve the heritage and ancient
   history of Egypt. — Sadiba Hasan, New York Times, 15 Dec. 2023 Buy on
   Amazon Real Cajun Chef Donald Link lives, breathes, and cooks his
   heritage daily. — Southern Living Editors, Southern Living, 14 Dec.
   2023 The vow came amid a spate of violent and hateful incidents
   targeting Jews and people of Arab heritage against the backdrop of the
   Israel-Hamas war. — NBC News, 14 Dec. 2023 Despite its 41-year
   heritage, Gulf Craft is still relatively unknown in North America. —
   Kevin Koenig, Robb Report, 13 Dec. 2023 Like many of her peers, she had
   been inspired by the civil rights movement to think about organizing on
   behalf of her cultural heritage as a Mexican American. — Penelope
   Green, New York Times, 9 Dec. 2023 See More

   These examples are programmatically compiled from various online
   sources to illustrate current usage of the word 'heritage.' Any
   opinions expressed in the examples do not represent those of
   Merriam-Webster or its editors. Send us feedback about these examples.

Word History

   Etymology

   Middle English heritage, eritage, borrowed from Anglo-French, from
   heriter "to inherit, make an heir" (going back to Late Latin hērēditāre
   "to leave as an inheritance, inherit, make an heir," from Latin hērēd-,
   hērēs heir entry 1 + -itāre, verb suffix) + -age -age

   Note: The Latin verb suffix -itāre normally has repetitive or
   frequentative value (cf. hesitate, meditate, palpitate), not factitive
   or causative value, so in this instance it may be of distinct origin. A
   possible model is the adjective hērēditārius (see hereditary), in the
   formation of which a stem hērēdit- appears to have been extracted from
   the noun hērēditāt-, hērēditās "succession to an heir, inheritance," by
   construing the suffix as -āt-, -ās (or, alternatively, *hērēditātārius
   was shortened by haplology to hērēditārius).
   First Known Use

   13th century, in the meaning defined at sense 1
   Time Traveler
   The first known use of heritage was in the 13th century
   See more words from the same century

Dictionary Entries Near heritage

   heritably

   heritage

   heritance
   See More Nearby Entries

Cite this Entry

   Style
   [MLA____________]

   “Heritage.” Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary, Merriam-Webster,
   https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/heritage. Accessed 4 Jan.
   2024.
   Copy Citation

Share

   Post the Definition of heritage to Facebook Facebook Facebook
   Share the Definition of heritage on Twitter Twitter Twitter

Kids Definition

   heritage
   noun
   her·​i·​tage ˈher-ət-ij  How to pronounce heritage (audio)
   1
   : property that is handed down to an heir
   2
   : something acquired from the past
   a rich heritage of folklore

More from Merriam-Webster on heritage

   Nglish: Translation of heritage for Spanish Speakers

   Britannica English: Translation of heritage for Arabic Speakers
   Last Updated: 27 Dec 2023 - Updated example sentences
   Love words? Need even more definitions?

   Subscribe to America's largest dictionary and get thousands more
   definitions and advanced search—ad free!
   Merriam-Webster unabridged
   Play Quordle: Guess all four words in a limited number of tries. Each
   of your guesses must be a real 5-letter word.

Can you solve 4 words at once?

   (BUTTON) Play (BUTTON) Play

Can you solve 4 words at once?

   (BUTTON) Play (BUTTON) Play

Word of the Day

skulk

   Listen to the pronunciation of skulk

   See Definitions and Examples »

   Get Word of the Day daily email!
   SUBSCRIBE ____________________

Popular in Grammar  Usage

   See All

8 Grammar Terms You Used to Know, But Forgot

Homophones, Homographs, and Homonyms

Commonly Misspelled Words

A Guide to Em Dashes, En Dashes, and Hyphens

Absent Letters That Are Heard Anyway

   See All

Popular in Wordplay

   See All

10 Words for Lesser-Known Games and Sports

The Words of the Week - Dec. 29

Your Favorite Band is in the Dictionary

Etymologies for Every Day of the Week

7 Common Idioms That Come from Chickens

   See All

Games  Quizzes

   See All
   Play Quordle: Guess all four words in a limited number of tries. Each
   of your guesses must be a real 5-letter word.
   Quordle Can you solve 4 words at once?
   (BUTTON) Play
   Play Blossom: Solve today's spelling word game by finding as many words
   as you can using just 7 letters. Longer words score more points.
   Blossom Word Game You can make only 12 words. Pick the best ones!
   (BUTTON) Play
   Play Missing Letter: a crossword with a twist. Each of the 25 puzzle
   words start with a different letter of the alphabet. Which letter is
   missing?
   Missing Letter A crossword with a twist
   (BUTTON) Play
   winning words from the national spelling bee logo
   Spelling Bee Quiz Can you outdo past winners of the National Spelli...
   (BUTTON) Take the quiz

   Merriam Webster

   Learn a new word every day. Delivered to your inbox!
   ____________________ SUBSCRIBE 
     * Help
     * About Us
     * Advertising Info
     * Contact Us
     * Diversity
     * Privacy Policy
     * Terms of Use

     * Facebook
     * Twitter
     * YouTube
     * Instagram

   © 2024 Merriam-Webster, Incorporated</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-13">
<text>   #alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-K9GSDZH

   European Fashion Heritage Association European Fashion Heritage
   Association

   (BUTTON) Explore Archive

     * About Us
     * People
     * Partners
     * Projects
     * Press Area
     * Publications
     * Journal
     * Pathways
     * Join us!

     * Facebook
     * Instagram
     * Twitter
     * Pinterest
     * Tumblr
     * LinkedIn
     * Vimeo

   EFHA World 11.12.2023

Unveiling the Future: Highlights from the 'Future Heritage' EFHA Conference

   a recap of the EFHA 2023 conference held in Utrecht on 27-28 November
   2023.

   Designers 23.11.2023

Object Voices: Maggy Rouff, a rebel against rebels

   This gold lamé evening gown, designed by Maggy Rouff, is featured in
   Modemuseum Hasselt’s exhibition ‘We Need to Talk about Fashion.’ A
   guest post by Modemuseum Hasselt

   Exhibitions 20.11.2023

Object Voices: YSL Gown in Movement

   This newly acquired Yves Saint Laurent gown finds its place in the
   escapism section of Modemuseum Hasselt’s current exhibition, ‘We Need
   to Talk about Fashion’. A guest post by Modemuseum Hasselt

   Exhibitions 14.11.2023

'We Need to Talk about Fashion' at Modemuseum Hasselt

   Do We Need to Talk about Fashion? Indeed we do!

Designers

   Designers 15.07.2023

Fashion Report - From Alfa to Missoni

   Designers 11.05.2023

"Gianfranco Ferré. Design Principles" at the Italian Cultural institute in
Los Angeles

Fashion  History

   Fashion  History 30.10.2023

Hairstyles: Beauty and Pride

   Exhibitions 15.09.2023

Object Voices: Le 'Robe Volante'

Runway Archive

   Designers 27.06.2022

Runway Archive: Vivienne Westwood, Pitti Uomo 38, 1990

   Exhibitions 16.05.2022

Vestirsi da Uomo

   Tumblr
   Join our newsletter!

About Us

   EFHA is an international hub, in which fashion GLAMs (Galleries,
   Libraries, Archives and Museums) and brands share their digital
   heritage assets and their experiences and best practices in the field
   of digitisation, access and valorisation of fashion heritage resources.
   Read more

Partners

   The European Fashion Heritage Association brings together more than 50
   institutions coming from 15 European countries, creating the largest
   fashion heritage network in the world.
   Read more

   Web design
   Metodo studio
   Development
   Papion

   European Fashion
   Heritage Association
   Via di Brozzi 274, 50145
   Florence, Italy
   [email protected]

   Our Mission
   We make it easier for fashion GLAMs and brands to get better value from
   their heritage assets by opening them up and connecting with new
   audiences.
     * About Us
     * Contact
     * Journal

     * Partners Area
     * Privacy Policy
     * Cookie Policy

   Join our newsletter!

   Follow us:
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

   Co-financed by the EU</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-14">
<text>   #alternate

   Skip to main content

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-KTTKSGS

     * About IUCN
     * News  Events
     * Press
     * Blog
     * Regions
          + Asia
          + Eastern and Southern Africa
          + Eastern Europe and Central Asia
          + Europe
          + Mediterranean
          + Mexico, Central America and the Caribbean
          + North America
          + Oceania
          + South America
          + West and Central Africa
          + West Asia
     * Other Sites
          + IUCN Academy
          + IUCN Contributions for Nature
          + IUCN Library
          + IUCN Red List of Threatened Species TM
          + IUCN Green List of Protected and Conserved Areas
          + IUCN World Heritage Outlook
          + IUCN Leaders Forum
          + ECOLEX
          + Protected Planet
          + Union Portal (login required)
          + IUCN Engage (login required)
          + Commission portal (login required)

     * English
     * Français
     * Español

   ____________________________________________________________

   (BUTTON)
   Home

     * English
     * Français
     * Español

     * Nature 2030

Nature 2030
       A call for mobilisation to the entire Union.
          + Overview

PRIORITIES
          + people
            People
          + land
            Land
          + water
            Water
          + ocean
            Ocean
          + climate
            Climate

Nature 2030 second column
          + IMPLEMENTATION AND FINANCE
          + CONTRIBUTIONS FOR NATURE
     * Our Work

Our work
       Data, analysis, convening and action.
          + Overview
          + Open Project Portal

THEMES
          + Biodiversity
          + Business, finance and economics
          + Climate change
          + Freshwater and water security
          + Governance - law and rights
          + Nature-based Solutions
          + Ocean and coasts
          + Protected areas and land use

REGIONS
          + Asia
          + Eastern and Southern Africa
          + Eastern Europe and Central Asia
          + Europe
          + Mediterranean
          + Mexico, Central America and the Caribbean
          + North America
          + Oceania
          + South America
          + West and Central Africa
          + West Asia
          + SCIENCE-LED APPROACH
          + INFORMING POLICY
          + SUPPORTING CONSERVATION ACTION
          + GEF AND GCF IMPLEMENTATION
          + IUCN CONVENING
          + IUCN ACADEMY
     * Our Union

Our Union
       The world’s largest and most diverse environmental network.
          + Overview

CORE COMPONENTS
          + Members
          + Expert Commissions
          + Secretariat and Director General
          + IUCN Council
          + IUCN WORLD CONSERVATION CONGRESS
          + CONTRIBUTIONS FOR NATURE
          + IUCN ENGAGE (LOGIN REQUIRED)
     * Resources

Resources
       IUCN tools, publications and other resources.
          + Overview

EXPLORE ALL RESOURCES
          + Search all resources
          + IUCN Issues Briefs
          + IUCN Publications
          + Conservation Tools

LIBRARIES
          + IUCN LIBRARY

   (BUTTON) Get involved
     * About IUCN
     * News  Events
     * Press
     * Blog
     * Regions
          + Asia
          + Eastern and Southern Africa
          + Eastern Europe and Central Asia
          + Europe
          + Mediterranean
          + Mexico, Central America and the Caribbean
          + North America
          + Oceania
          + South America
          + West and Central Africa
          + West Asia
     * Other Sites
          + IUCN Academy
          + IUCN Contributions for Nature
          + IUCN Library
          + IUCN Red List of Threatened Species TM
          + IUCN Green List of Protected and Conserved Areas
          + IUCN World Heritage Outlook
          + IUCN Leaders Forum
          + ECOLEX
          + Protected Planet
          + Union Portal (login required)
          + IUCN Engage (login required)
          + Commission portal (login required)

   (BUTTON) Get involved

    1. Home
    2. Our Work
    3. World Heritage

   Share:

World Heritage

   IUCN is the official advisor on nature under the World Heritage
   Convention. Natural World Heritage sites are recognised as the most
   significant protected areas. They provide life-supporting benefits to
   people and the planet, yet face increasing threats. Our ability to
   secure the highest quality of protection to these sites is a litmus
   test of the effectiveness of nature conservation more broadly.
   media thumbnail
   Course/training | 05 Oct, 2022
   IUCN introductory course on natural World Heritage
   Are you interested in helping conserve the world’s most outstanding
   natural places? Join the IUCN Academy for a free online course to learn
   more about natural World Heritage sites and what makes them…
   media thumbnail
   Publication | 2020
   IUCN World Heritage Outlook 3
   IUCN World Heritage Outlook 3 builds on three cycles of Conservation
   Outlook Assessments undertaken since 2014. It presents the main results
   for 2020, but also some longer-term trends based on…
   media thumbnail
   Story | 23 Sep, 2022
   Norway renews commitment to World Heritage Leadership
   Norway’s Ministry of Climate and Environment has renewed its support
   for World Heritage Leadership, a capacity-building programme jointly
   run by the International Union for Conservation of Nature …
   media thumbnail
   News | 29 Jul, 2022
   New guidance set to help reduce impacts from development on World
   Heritage sites
   UNESCO and the Advisory Bodies to the World Heritage Committee have
   issued new guidance for assessing impacts from projects that could
   potentially affect the planet’s most precious heritage places…
   Overview
   Our Work
   Get Involved
   Resources
   News  Events

IUCN's work on World Heritage

   IUCN strives to enhance the role of the World Heritage Convention in
   protecting the planet’s biodiversity and promote effective use of its
   mechanisms to strengthen the conservation and management of natural
   sites. IUCN's approach to conserving the natural sites inscribed on the
   UNESCO World Heritage List is based on decades of work, expertise and
   partnerships. IUCN is an official advisor to the World Heritage
   Committee. In addition to this statutory role, IUCN assesses the
   conservation prospects of all natural sites through the IUCN World
   Heritage Outlook. IUCN also implements capacity-building initiatives
   through the World Heritage Leadership programme, recognising the
   connections between People-Nature-Culture in managing World Heritage
   sites.

   Heading
   We assess
   63% of all
   Description

   natural World Heritage sites listed up to 2020 are assessed by IUCN as
   having a positive conservation outlook

   To the IUCN World Heritage Outlook read more

   Heading
   We advise
   ~ 60 natural sites
   Description

   are monitored by IUCN each year for the World Heritage Committee; 257
   are now listed

   See all natural World Heritage sites read more

   Heading
   We train
   3500 practioners
   Description

   have participated in capacity building through the World Heritage
   Leadership Programme.

   Read more read more

Why is natural World Heritage important?

   World Heritage sites enjoy the highest level of international
   recognition through the 1972 World Heritage Convention, as places so
   valuable that their conservation transcends boundaries, cultures and
   generations. Our ability to secure the highest quality of protection to
   natural World Heritage sites is therefore a litmus test of the
   effectiveness of nature conservation more broadly.

   Although there are relatively few natural World Heritage sites compared
   to other types of protected areas, they cover very large areas that
   represent the best of nature. The 257 sites currently inscribed on the
   World Heritage List for their natural values cover about 7.4% of the
   world’s total protected lands and seas.

   Natural World Heritage sites include iconic places such as the
   Galapagos Islands, the Serengeti, Kilimanjaro, Yellowstone, the Great
   Barrier Reef and Ha Long Bay. They are areas of stunning natural
   beauty, which not only harbour unique ecosystems and rare species, but
   also reflect a collective commitment to safeguarding the planet’s most
   precious places for future generations.

                             component-separator

   Policy positions

World Heritage and the Post-2020 Global Biodiversity Framework

   A statement issued by a group of experts provides key messages on the
   relevance of the World Heritage Convention, and how it can be harnessed
   to support global biodiversity targets post 2020.
   Read more read more

Impact assessment

   Assessing the impacts of projects likely to affect World Heritage sites
   –before deciding to proceed with them– is essential to prevent damage
   on natural values and identify sustainable options.
   Download report read more

The Promise of Sydney

   The flagship outcome document of IUCN's 2014 World Park Congress
   proposes six recommendations to guide the World Heritage Convention
   towards an enhanced role over a decade.
   Read more read more

                        More policies and guidelines

   Thematic studies

   IUCN regularly conducts and updates thematic studies to help States
   Parties and interested stakeholders assess the potential for nominating
   candidate sites to the World Heritage List. These include analyses of
   possible gaps by region or by type of ecosystem.

   Discover thematic studies
   Iguaçu National Park, Brazil
   Event
   IUCN introductory course on natural World Heritage

   Are you interested in helping conserve the world’s most outstanding
   natural places? Join the IUCN Academy for a free online course to learn
   more about natural World Heritage sites and what makes them different
   from other types of protected areas…
   View event

   RELATED
   Topics:
   Marine ecosystems, Livelihoods and sustainable use, Species
   conservation action, Climate change impacts on nature, Effective
   protected areas, Key biodiversity areas, Forests, High seas, Indigenous
   peoples
   Commissions:
   Species Survival Commission, World Commission on Protected Areas
   IUCN units:
   Protected Areas World Heritage
   Nature 2030 priorities:
   Icon
   Les terres
   Icon
   Les océans
   Icon
   L’humanité
   Sustainable development goals:
   Icon
   SDG 11
   Icon
   SDG 13
   Icon
   SDG 14
   Icon
   SDG 15
   Icon
   SDG 16
   Icon
   SDG 17

                             component separator

World heritage

   Topic Search View

   [Type____]

   [Country_________________________________________________]

   [Region___________________________________]

   (Search) Search
   Parque Nacional Tikal, Guatemala

   Noticias | 07 Dec, 2023

   Inversión de más de 11 millones de dólares se destinará a la
   conservación de bosques…
   BESNET logo

   News | 01 Dec, 2023

   A Unique Coexistence of an Indigenous Tribe (Adivasi) with Tigers in
   the Western Ghats of India
   IUCN BBNJ Treaty policy brief cover

   News | 27 Nov, 2023

   New report on High Seas Biodiversity Treaty gives accessible
   at-a-glance introduction
   IUCN BBNJ Treaty policy brief cover

   Grey literature | 2023

   High Seas Biodiversity Treaty Policy Brief
   Using the Enhancing our Heritage Toolkit in Baku, Azerbaijan

   Actualité | 21 Nov, 2023

   Un nouvel outil pour évaluer l'efficacité de la gestion du patrimoine
   mondial
   Using the Enhancing our Heritage Toolkit in Baku, Azerbaijan

   News | 21 Nov, 2023

   New toolkit to assess the effectiveness of World Heritage management

   All World heritage

   subscribe
   Stay informed

   Sign up for an IUCN newsletter

   [Select a Newsletter]

   ____________________________________________________________

   (Subscribe) Subscribe

Featured bottom second Menus

     * About
     * Accountability
     * Careers
     * Procurement
     * Legal
     * Terms and conditions

SECRETARIAT

     * Secretariat and Director General

COMMISSIONS

     * Climate Crisis Commission (CCC)
     * Commission on Ecosystem Management (CEM)
     * Commission on Education and Communication (CEC)
     * Commission on Environmental, Economic and Social Policy (CEESP)
     * Species Survival Commission (SSC)
     * World Commission on Environmental Law (WCEL)
     * World Commission on Protected Areas (WCPA)

THEMES

     * Biodiversity
     * Business, finance and economics
     * Climate change
     * Freshwater and water security
     * Governance - law and rights
     * Nature-based Solutions
     * Ocean and coasts
     * Protected areas and land use

REGIONS

     * Asia
     * Eastern and Southern Africa
     * Eastern Europe and Central Asia
     * Europe
     * Mediterranean
     * Mexico, Central America and the Caribbean
     * North America
     * Oceania
     * South America
     * West and Central Africa
     * West Asia

Contact read more

   Headquarters
   Rue Mauverney 28
   1196 Gland
   Switzerland

   +41 22 9990000
   +41 22 9990002(Fax)
     __________________________________________________________________

Follow Us

   linkedin twitter facebook instagram youtube

Crossroads Blog

   ©IUCN, International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural
   Resources</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-15">
<text>   #alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate Pixelated Realities
   » Feed Pixelated Realities » Comments Feed alternate alternate
   alternate

   [tr?id=524818642068181ev=PageViewnoscript=1]

     * Museum
          + Kharkiv
          + Kherson
          + Kyiv
          + Kramatorsk
          + Mykolaiv
          + Odesa
          + Sumy
     * Home
     * About us
     * Portfolio
     * Services
     * News
     * Italiano
     * Deutsch
     * Українська

   ____________________ Go

   Pixelated Realities

     * Museum
          + Kharkiv
          + Kherson
          + Kyiv
          + Kramatorsk
          + Mykolaiv
          + Odesa
          + Sumy
     * Home
     * About us
     * Portfolio
     * Services
     * News
     * Italiano
     * Deutsch
     * Українська

   ____________________ Search
     * Facebook
     * Instagram
     * YouTube
     * Sketchfab

   © Copyright 2022. PO Pixelated Realities

PIXELATED REALITIES

   DIGITIZING HERITAGE FOR
   THE FUTURE
   [noto-v1_crystal-ball.png] To museum

   PIXELATED REALITIES

   Digitizing heritage
   TO MUSEUM

   FOR CITIES

   FOR ARCHITECTS

   FOR SCULPTORS

   FOR ACTIVISTS

MISSION - TO IMPROVE THE METHODS OF CULTURAL HERITAGE PRESERVATION

   In order to realize our mission in the first five years of work we’ve
   promoted and developed best practices of digital technologies
   implementation in the sphere of heritage preservation. Open 

   Our main activities:
     * created a virtual tour of archaeological excavations under Poshtova
       Square in Kyiv;
     * Duke of Richelieu and famous monuments of Ukraine were placed in
       cinema, AR, VR and even holograms;
     * Scanned and manufactured models of monuments for 7 bronze models in
       Odesa and Kropyvnytskyi;
     * Implemented Very Digital Residences, which became one of the 5
       nominees for the 2020 UCF Digital Project of the Year Award.
     * Became speakers at more than 40 high-level and local events,
       including TEDx, annual forums of the Ministry of Culture of
       Ukraine, scientific conferences.



   But we are no longer promoting digital preservation.

   Now, in the 2020s, there are already companies in Ukraine that scan and
   model, work with digital passports of heritage — projects in BIM. The
   state also shows by its actions that digitalization is a priority and
   won’t be avoided.


   Therefore, we have a new mission — to improve the methods of preserving
   cultural heritage. What it implies for our institutional activities:
     * Training of multisectoral specialists, including artists and
       officials, architects and photographers, reporters and activists;
     * Developing new production chains between workshops and hubs across
       the country and abroad;
     * Implementation of digital décor restoration and digital passports
       during restoration;
     * Supporting collection of the Ukrainian database of heritage in the
       format of digital twins of cities and buildings;
     * Stimulating business and creative industries cooperation around
       digital heritage.



   We are operating from Odesa, Ukraine, and have team members in Italy,
   Germany and other countries. We are open to working with cities and
   cultural institutions, businesses and artists, experts and activists.
   If you care about cultural heritage, join our mission and implement new
   digital projects with us.
   Close 

FEDIR BOITSOV

   VISIONER, ARCHITECT AND 3D ARTIST, 3D SCANNING EXPERT, PRODUCER FOR
   VR/AR, DIGITAL MANUFACTURING. VERONA, ITALY

IANA BOITSOVA

   COO, EXPERT IN DIGITIZATION, CULTURAL PROJECTS, COMMUNICATIONS,
   NON-FORMAL EDUCATION. VERONA, ITALY

ALI KADOUM

   3D ARTIST, PHOTOGRAMMETRIST, DIGITAL PRODUCTION SPECIALIST, CURATOR.
   BERLIN, GERMANY

ANDRII TKALYCH

   PHOTOGRAPHER, PHOTOGRAMMETRY TEAM LEADER, 3D ARTIST. ODESA, UKRAINE

OLEKSII VORONKO

   SCULPTOR, PHOTOGRAMMETRIST, 3D ARTIST. ODESA, UKRAINE

VIRA LIUTENKO

   SCULPTOR, PHOTOGRAMMETRIST, 3D ARTIST, CURATOR

   FOR CITIES
   [noto-v1_helicopter.png] CONTACT US

   Transform your liability into your legacy working as an asset of your
   community in a course of few years.
    1. Attract the attention of tourists with innovative visualization of
       the monument, recreate its historical appearance and present it in
       augmented reality. The next step is to turn the 3D model into a
       real layout made of bronze, wood, or plastic.
    2. Open access for local entrepreneurs to create original souvenirs on
       the terms of receiving royalties.
    3. With architects, urbanists and the community, develop a
       participatory project to fill the monument with life.
    4. Present a revitalized memo to investors and involve large
       businesses or funds in the restoration.
    5. We support cultural projects from the concept stage to the search
       for funding (grants, government competitions, tenders, joint
       funds).
    6. Consult on the possibilities and limitations of digital cultural
       projects;
    7. Find support in writing applications, communications, and
       administration;

   FOR CITIES
   [noto-v1_helicopter.png] CONTACT US

   Transform your liability into your legacy working as an asset of your
   community in a course of few years.
    1. Attract the attention of tourists with innovative visualization of
       the monument, recreate its historical appearance and present it in
       augmented reality. The next step is to turn the 3D model into a
       real layout made of bronze, wood, or plastic.
    2. Open access for local entrepreneurs to create original souvenirs on
       the terms of receiving royalties.
    3. With architects, urbanists and the community, develop a
       participatory project to fill the monument with life.
    4. Present a revitalized memo to investors and involve large
       businesses or funds in the restoration.
    5. We support cultural projects from the concept stage to the search
       for funding (grants, government competitions, tenders, joint
       funds).
    6. Consult on the possibilities and limitations of digital cultural
       projects;
    7. Find support in writing applications, communications, and
       administration;

   Одеса квадрати кварталів хмара точок 1500 (1)

   FOR ARCHITECTS
   [noto-v1_dragon.png] CONTACT US

   Are you working with the reconstruction of a historic building or
   creating a project to revitalize the old plant? Pay attention to
   digital production if you want to effectively set up communication
   between all project participants. Use visually understandable and
   accurate data adapted for the public, customer, city government,
   contractors and partners. With us you can get a source 3D scanning
   data, helping to develop a BIM project for difficult and colorful
   surfaces of the heritage site.
    1. Get a scan of the building with an accuracy of 5 centimeters;
    2. 3D data is immediately ready to create a BIM project;
    3. Orthophotomaps, scaled damage maps;
    4. Create a physical layout or digital twin for project communication;
    5. Grow your talents with digital production workshops and courses for
       your team (Eng).

   FOR MUSEUMS
   [noto-v1_bat.png] CONTACT US

   Digitize your collections and preserve the highquality data for
   research, partnerships, immersive exhibitions, NFT projects.

   Our team can organise an expedition to your site, setup a scanning
   booth and work in close contact with your stuff to secure the safety of
   your artworks and exhibits during the process.

   Write us of look for ways toDigitize paintings, artworks, sculptures,
   archaeological exhibits and other objects which are best stored in 3D.
   We can work with metal and shiny objects. The final models can be
   ported to Europeana.
    1. Get precise model and photorealistic texture, ready for game
       engines. You can show them in web, use for CGI, film production,
       immersive exhibitions, video games and metaverse.
    2. Produce orthophotos for research purposes and restoration projects.
       Scan frescoes, bas-reliefs, wall-paintings and mosaics for your
       collection.

   FOR MUSEUMS
   [noto-v1_bat.png] CONTACT US

   Digitize your collections and preserve the highquality data for
   research, partnerships, immersive exhibitions, NFT projects.

   Our team can organise an expedition to your site, setup a scanning
   booth and work in close contact with your stuff to secure the safety of
   your artworks and exhibits during the process.

   Write us of look for ways toDigitize paintings, artworks, sculptures,
   archaeological exhibits and other objects which are best stored in 3D.
   We can work with metal and shiny objects. The final models can be
   ported to Europeana.
    1. Get precise model and photorealistic texture, ready for game
       engines. You can show them in web, use for CGI, film production,
       immersive exhibitions, video games and metaverse.
    2. Produce orthophotos for research purposes and restoration projects.
       Scan frescoes, bas-reliefs, wall-paintings and mosaics for your
       collection.

   DIGITIZED HERITAGE IS A PLATFORM FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL CREATIVES
   BUSINESSES AND CULTURAL INSTITUTIONS

   FOR SCULPTORS
   [noto-v1_sign-of-the-horns-dark-skin-tone.png] CONTACT US

   One of the crucial benefits of digital production is the time saved,
   which can be used to work on creative ideas. Work with traditional
   media and sketch in plasticine, clay, or found objects. Scanning solves
   the problem of scaling and making changes to the layout in the next
   stages of production.
    1. Scan the sketch from a material convenient for you and get a 3D
       model;
    2. Make changes yourself or in collaboration with our 3D artist;
    3. Visualize the future work in the material and at the location;
    4. 3D print a casting mold, that saves materials and production steps;
    5. Ростіть місцеві таланти завдяки семінарам та курсам з цифрового
       виробництва.

   FOR SCULPTORS
   [noto-v1_sign-of-the-horns-dark-skin-tone.png] CONTACT US

   One of the crucial benefits of digital production is the time saved,
   which can be used to work on creative ideas. Work with traditional
   media and sketch in plasticine, clay, or found objects. Scanning solves
   the problem of scaling and making changes to the layout in the next
   stages of production.
    1. Scan the sketch from a material convenient for you and get a 3D
       model;
    2. Make changes yourself or in collaboration with our 3D artist;
    3. Visualize the future work in the material and at the location;
    4. 3D print a casting mold, that saves materials and production steps;
    5. Ростіть місцеві таланти завдяки семінарам та курсам з цифрового
       виробництва.

   [donation-1.png] SUPPORT US
     * Ukraine, Odesa,
     * +39 3806941094
     * pixelatedrealities@gmail.com

SUPPORT OUR EFFORTS – DONATE

   [paypal-donation-qr-code.png]

LATEST

     * Museum
          + Kharkiv
          + Kherson
          + Kyiv
          + Kramatorsk
          + Mykolaiv
          + Odesa
          + Sumy
     * Home
     * About us
     * Portfolio
     * Services
     * News
     * Italiano
     * Deutsch
     * Українська

CITIES

     * Kramatorsk
     * Mykolaiv
     * Kharkiv
     * Odesa
     * Other

SUBSCRIBE:

     * Facebook
     * Sketchfab
     * Instagram
     * Youtube
     * Issuu
     __________________________________________________________________

   [donation-1.png] SUPPORT US
   Privacy policy

   © Copyright 2022. PO Pixelated Realities

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-W38RDGS</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-16">
<text>   #European Heritage Tribune » Feed European Heritage Tribune » Comments
   Feed European Heritage Tribune » Chances and ambitions: the future of
   young talent in heritage Comments Feed alternate alternate alternate

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WL3WMSN

     *

     *

     * Themes
          + All the news
          + Climate Change
          + Endangered
          + Heritage Management
          + Digitalization
          + Intangible Heritage
          + Archaeology
          + Policy in Europe
          + Tourism
     * Calendar
          + Events
     * Blogs
          + European Heritage Days 2021 Video Reports
          + European Heritage Youth Ambassadors Blog
          + Esach Blog
          + Blog Future Making in the Anthropocene
          + Blog Looking for Faro
     * Newsletter
          + Browse Archive
          + Subscribe
     * EHT
          + About the European Heritage Tribune
          + History of the European Heritage Tribune
     * Language
          +

     *
     *

   Reading
   Chances and ambitions: the future of young talent in heritage
   ShareTweet

   Europe

Chances and ambitions: the future of young talent in heritage

   Jana·November 22, 2023·55 views
   Jana

   At the Annual Dutch National Conference on Monuments, an interesting
   presentation highlighted the preliminary findings of the research
   project on “Chances and Ambitions for Young Talent in Heritage.”
   Ordered by the newly founded Stichting Next Gen Heritage, the project
   aims to explore the integration of young professionals into the Dutch
   heritage sector, addressing contemporary challenges such as the
   implications of ageing of many professionals active in heritage, and
   the Faro Convention.

   This presentation at the Dutch National Monuments Conference shed light
   on the crucial need for the heritage sector to adapt and evolve,
   embracing the talents and energies of young professionals. The findings
   from “Chances and Ambitions for Young Talent in Heritage” set the stage
   for future developments and strategic changes in the sector.

   Key Areas of the Research
   The research, which is a part of the broader initiative by the
   Stichting Next Generation Heritage focuses on three critical aspects:
    1. Labor Market Overview: The first part of the presentation detailed
       the diverse nature of the heritage sector, including the
       differences in chains and organizational structures like in built
       and green heritage, archaeology, archives, and museums. Each
       segment has unique needs in education and faces different kinds of
       shortages like manual labor or administrative positions.
       But the research also shows that, at least in the Netherlands,
       heritage is becoming a more and more integral part of bigger
       processes, like city planning or the battle against climate change.
       Thus heritage workers, especially those who work in the public
       sector, increasingly spend their time in multidisciplinary
       environments and require different skills and different
       combinations of experience and knowledge.
    2. Youth Perspectives and Aspirations: The presentation zoomed into
       the findings related to higher education students in heritage
       fields. It showed students have a very strong commitment to
       heritage, and is coupled to their active engagement with societal
       issues close to them, ranging from climate change, housing
       shortages, to the need for diversity.
       Despite their enthusiasm and ambition to bring change to the
       sector, there’s a clear disconnect between these young aspirants
       and the current state of the heritage sector. Students often
       perceive a lack of visible job opportunities, internships, and
       traineeships in the field. “We don’t notice at all that the sector
       needs young people”, one of the respondents said.
    3. Ideal work environment
       In the same vein, the ideal work environment as defined by young
       professionals in the heritage sector, is characterized by small and
       agile organizations. These organizations are prized for their
       flexibility and their commitment to making a positive contribution
       to the future. Such workplaces are seen as innovative learning
       environments, where young professionals can grow and develop their
       skills.
       Emphasis is also placed on teamwork within these organizations,
       where young professionals feel that their contributions are taken
       seriously and their voices are heard and valued. This preference
       highlights a clear shift towards a more dynamic, inclusive, and
       forward-thinking approach in the workplace.
    4. Sector’s Current State and Challenges: The final part of the
       presentation addressed how the heritage sector has been operating.
       While it has seen success in the past decade, the presentation
       suggested that the sector might be overlooking the need to actively
       adapt to the changing society and the ambitions of the younger
       generation. The mission for the sector is to reevaluate its
       practices and develop, as a community, new strategies to integrate
       young talent effectively.

   Implications and Future Directions
   The presentation stressed the need for the heritage sector to become
   more accessible and appealing to young professionals. This involves
   tailoring jobs to their career aspirations and creating a more flexible
   environment but also adapting them to fit the evolving needs of jobs
   that are increasingly becoming integral part of more complex processes.

   Call for Collaborative Efforts
   Concluding the presentation, foundation director Herbert-Jan Hiep
   invited stakeholders in the heritage sector from government, industry
   and educational backgrounds, to collaborate with the Stichting Next
   Generation Heritage to create pilot projects. These should explore new
   forms of multidisciplinary and intergeneration cooperation within a
   learning-on-the-job-type environment. The foundation aims to create a
   heritage sector that is innovative, inclusive, and aligned with the
   interests of the next generation, ensuring its vitality and relevance
   in the modern world.

   Contact Herbert-Jan Hiep at hiep@nextgenerationheritage.nl

   Tags
   EuropeTheNetherlands

   This article was originally published in English. Texts in other
   languages are AI-translated. To change language: go to the main menu
   above.

Become a Heritage-Insider

   Email Address ____________________ (BUTTON) Get the newsletter

Recent Articles

Notre Dame Cathedral is rising from the ruins: how is the restoration going?

   Bad Ischl

Bad Ischl, Austria to be the European Capital of Culture in 2024 alongside
Tartu and Bodø

   The Notre Dame Cathedral fire in 2019. Image: Alexander Perrien Canva
   CC0

“Anachronistic” rebuild of Notre Dame angers environmental group

Colosseum’s lower levels open to the public for the first time in 2000 years

   Click here for our homepage with  more heritage news from all over
   Europe.

Leave a Reply Cancel reply

   Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

   Comment *
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________

   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________

   Name ______________________________

   Email ______________________________

   Website ______________________________

   [ ] I accept the Privacy Policy

   Submit

   Δ
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________

   This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is
   processed.

About European Heritage Tribune

   EHT is a free digital newsletter for European heritage professionals.
   It aims to build a lasting European network by sharing knowledge,
   connecting people and the cultural and creative sectors.

   Read more

GET INVOLVED

     * About EHT
     * Partners  Supporters
     * Newsletter
     * Subscribe
     * FAQ’s

OUR PARTNERS

   Copyright © 2018 European Heritage Tribune

     * Subscribe to EHT Newsletter
     * Privacy Policy

     * Facebook
     * Twitter
     * Instagram
     * Linkedin
     * Search
     * Back to top

     * About EHT
     * Subscribe
     *
         ______________________________________________________________

     * Latest news
          + Climate Change
          + Endangered
          + Digital  Heritage
          + Archaeology
     * Blogs
          + Blog ESACH
          + Blog European Heritage Youth Ambassadors
          + Blog Looking for Faro
          + Blog Future Making in the Anthropocene
          + European Heritage Days 2021 Video Reports
     * Events
     * Calls
     *
     * Français Deutsch English
     * News by Country
          + Albania
          + Austria
          + Belarus
          + Belgium
          + Bosnia and Herzegovina
          + Bulgaria
          + Croatia
          + Cyprus
          + Czech Republic
          + Denmark
          + Estonia
          + Finland
          + France
          + Georgia
          + Germany
          + Greece
          + Hungary
          + Iceland
          + Ireland
          + Italy
          + Kosovo
          + Latvia
          + Lithuania
          + Luxembourg
          + Malta
          + Moldova
          + Montenegro
          + North Macedonia
          + Norway
          + Poland
          + Portugal
          + Romania
          + Russia
          + Serbia
          + Slovakia
          + Slovenia
          + Spain
          + Sweden
          + Switzerland
          + The Netherlands
          + Turkey
          + Ukraine
          + United Kingdom

     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

Doneren

   The European Heritage Tribune is a guardian of Europe’s rich
   cultural tapestry. In a changing landscape, our platform spotlights the
   latest happenings and imminent threats to our shared heritage, aiming
   to keep the community informed and ready to act. However, this mission
   relies on your support. Stand with us to protect our shared legacy and
   donate to our organisation. Thank you.

   [doneren_met_mollie]

   ____________________ (BUTTON)
   Start typing to see results or hit ESC to close
   Europe BuiltHeritage EndangeredHeritage Archaeology UnitedKingdom
   See all results

Become a Heritage-Insider

   Email Address ____________________ (BUTTON) Get the newsletter

   (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-17">
<text>   #The Heritage Management Organization » Feed The Heritage Management
   Organization » Comments Feed The Heritage Management Organization »
   HERITΛGE Comments Feed alternate alternate alternate

     *
     *
     *

   DONATE NOW!

     * About
          + About us
          + Director’s Greeting
          + Mission Statement
          + Quality Policy
          + Our Team
          + Our Faculty
          + Our Board
          + African Committee
          + Partner Organizations
          + Publications
          + Join Us
          + Employment Opportunities
     * EDUCATION
          + Executive Leadership
          + Summer Field School
     * CERTIFICATE
     * OPEN COURSES
     * Projects
     * Conference
          + Conference
          + CONTACT/ΕΠΙΚΟΙΝΩΝΙΑ
          + Archive
               o 1st Conference
               o 2nd Conference
               o 3rd Conference
                    # Organising  Scientific Committee
                    # Session Abstracts
                    # Invited Speakers
                    # The Venue
                    # Authors Instructions
                    # Side Events
                    # Programme
               o 4th Conference
                    # Organising  Scientific Committee
                    # Session Abstracts
                    # Invited Speakers
                    # The Venue
                    # Authors Instructions
                    # Side Events
                    # Programme
               o 5th Conference
                    # Communication
                    # Organising  Scientific Committee
                    # Session Abstracts
                    # Invited Speakers
                    # The Venue
                    # Authors Instructions
                    # Side Events
                    # Programme
               o 6th Conference
                    # Συνέδριο
                    # Πρόγραμμα
                    # Προσκεκλημένοι Ομιλητές
                    # Προσκεκλημένες Ομάδες
                    # Πρόσβαση
                    # Επικοινωνία
               o 7th Conference
                    # Round Table
                    # Invited Speakers
                    # Invited Initiatives
                    # Register
                    # Contact
               o 8th Conference
     * News
          + Blog
          + Newsletters

     * About
          + About us
          + Director’s Greeting
          + Mission Statement
          + Quality Policy
          + Our Team
          + Our Faculty
          + Our Board
          + African Committee
          + Partner Organizations
          + Publications
          + Join Us
          + Employment Opportunities
     * EDUCATION
          + Executive Leadership
          + Summer Field School
     * CERTIFICATE
     * OPEN COURSES
     * Projects
     * Conference
          + Conference
          + CONTACT/ΕΠΙΚΟΙΝΩΝΙΑ
          + Archive
               o 1st Conference
               o 2nd Conference
               o 3rd Conference
                    # Organising  Scientific Committee
                    # Session Abstracts
                    # Invited Speakers
                    # The Venue
                    # Authors Instructions
                    # Side Events
                    # Programme
               o 4th Conference
                    # Organising  Scientific Committee
                    # Session Abstracts
                    # Invited Speakers
                    # The Venue
                    # Authors Instructions
                    # Side Events
                    # Programme
               o 5th Conference
                    # Communication
                    # Organising  Scientific Committee
                    # Session Abstracts
                    # Invited Speakers
                    # The Venue
                    # Authors Instructions
                    # Side Events
                    # Programme
               o 6th Conference
                    # Συνέδριο
                    # Πρόγραμμα
                    # Προσκεκλημένοι Ομιλητές
                    # Προσκεκλημένες Ομάδες
                    # Πρόσβαση
                    # Επικοινωνία
               o 7th Conference
                    # Round Table
                    # Invited Speakers
                    # Invited Initiatives
                    # Register
                    # Contact
               o 8th Conference
     * News
          + Blog
          + Newsletters

   HERITΛGE HERITΛGE HERITΛGE HERITΛGE HERITΛGE HERITΛGE

   December 14, 2023

Empowering Communities: Innovative Workshops on Community and Economic
Development in Rwanda

   December 14, 2023

Bridging Heritage and Climate Action: New Workshop creates a generation of
ambassadors

   December 12, 2023

Europe Mapping: Survey

   Learn
   Donate
   Join Us

Training

   Executive Leadership Workshops
   Summer Workshops
   Projects

     Empower Yourself and your Organization through training

   Find out more

Instagram Feed

the_heritage_nation

   n a rapidly changing world, the preservation and m n a rapidly changing
   world, the preservation and management of cultural heritage require
   strategic planning and effective decision-making. HERITΛGE’s latest
   transformative 3-day online workshop titled “Strategic Planning for
   Heritage Managers” led by Alexandros Papalexandris @aueb.gr , took
   place in mid-May and brought together 14 heritage managers from Africa,
   Asia, and Europe, providing them with essential strategic planning
   skills and knowledge. Read more on our blog 👆 link in bio #strategy
   #HMOworkshop#heritage #heritagemanagement #heritage
   #culturalheritagemanagement #culturalheritage #heritagenation #culture
   #heritagemanagementorganization #intangibleculturalheritage
   #unite4heritage #heritage4generations
   “A museum is a not-for-profit, permanent institu “A museum is a
   not-for-profit, permanent institution in the service of society that
   researches, collects, conserves, interprets and exhibits tangible and
   intangible heritage. Open to the public, accessible and inclusive,
   museums foster diversity and sustainability. They operate and
   communicate ethically, professionally and with the participation of
   communities, offering varied experiences for education, enjoyment,
   reflection and knowledge sharing.” Today it’s #InternationalMuseumDay!
   Let's celebrate this day and raise awareness for the most valuable
   means of cultural exchange and heritage preservation! Visit your local
   #museum or check out @icomofficiel 's interactive map and participate
   in this year's #IMD activities 👆 link in bio #museums
   #heritagemanagement #heritage #culture #culturalheritage
   #communityengagement #culturalheritagemanagement #heritagenation
   #heritagemanagementorganization #intangibleculturalheritage
   #unite4heritage #heritage4generations
   What can cultural heritage do for business in Afri What can cultural
   heritage do for business in Africa? HERITΛGE celebrated African
   Heritage Day on May 5th by taking part in an online webinar organized
   by the @women_in_africa. Dr. Evangelos Kyriakidis, HERITΛGE Director,
   and the organization’s Head of Africa Programmes, Mina Morou, both
   contributed to the webinar, sharing tips and good practices on how to
   make heritage preservation the basis for building a successful
   business. Find out more and watch the webinar (attended by around 1000
   people on the day!)👆 link in bio #heritage #heritagemanagement
   #africanheritage #africa #womeninafrica #womeninbusiness
   #heritagebusiness #business #hermapAfrica #heritage
   #culturalheritagemanagement #culturalheritage #heritagenation #culture
   #heritagemanagementorganization #intangibleculturalheritage
   #unite4heritage #heritage4generations
   HERITΛGE is happy to support the upcoming Colloqu HERITΛGE is happy to
   support the upcoming Colloquium  Workshops on “Decoloniality,
   Inclusivity, and the Greek Past”, organized by the @canellopoulosmuseum
   and the @isawnyu. #canellopoulosmuseum #camugr #greekmuseum #athens
   #greece #heritagemanagement #heritage #culturalheritagemanagement
   #culturalheritage #heritagenation #culture
   #heritagemanagementorganization
   Launch and develop your career in heritage managem Launch and develop
   your career in heritage management by mastering the General Principles
   of Cultural Heritage Conservation. Apply by May 17 for our 3-day
   workshop with Alexis Stefanis 👆 link in bio #conservation #workshop
   #training #heritagemanagement #heritage #culturalheritagemanagement
   #culturalheritage #heritagenation #culture
   #heritagemanagementorganization #intangibleculturalheritage
   #unite4heritage #heritage4generations
   HERITΛGE is trying to make cultural heritage more HERITΛGE is trying to
   make cultural heritage more inclusive and accessible by working
   together with another 13 partners on SHIFT, a EU-funded project. Meet
   our team and find out more about the project at the National Conference
   of ANBPR Asociatia Nationala - BiblioNEXT, with the theme "Public
   library - source of promotion and preservation of local memory", which
   takes place between May 10-14, 2023, in Craiova. #shift #technology
   #accessibility #inclusion #heritagemanagement #heritage
   #culturalheritagemanagement #culturalheritage #heritagenation #culture
   #heritagemanagementorganization #intangibleculturalheritage
   #unite4heritage #heritage4generations
   Happy #EuropeDay! Europe Day held on 9 May every y Happy #EuropeDay!
   Europe Day held on 9 May every year celebrates peace and unity in
   Europe. The date marks the anniversary of the historic 'Schuman
   declaration' that set out his idea for a new form of political
   cooperation in Europe, which would make war between Europe's nations
   unthinkable. Schuman's proposal is considered to be the beginning of
   what is now the #EuropeanUnion. #heritage #culturalheritagemanagement
   #culturalheritage #heritagenation #culture
   #heritagemanagementorganization #intangibleculturalheritage
   #unite4heritage #heritage4generations
   Acquire essential digital skills for any restorati Acquire essential
   digital skills for any restoration, documentation or visualization
   project. We have a limited number of places left for those wishing to
   attend our “Digital Tools for Heritage Management” summer school
   online. Find out more and apply now 👆 link in bio #summerschool
   #training #digitaltools #heritagemanagement #heritage
   #culturalheritagemanagement #culturalheritage #heritagenation #culture
   #heritagemanagementorganization #intangibleculturalheritage
   #unite4heritage #heritage4generations
   May Day! This historic holiday dates back to ancie May Day! This
   historic holiday dates back to ancient times and was traditionally used
   to celebrate springtime and new life. Traditions often include
   gathering wildflowers and green branches, weaving floral garlands, and
   setting up a Maypole. However, it also marks the International Workers’
   Day, commemorating the historic struggles and gains made by workers and
   the labour movement. In dozens of countries around the world, it serves
   as the occasion for demonstrations and rallies in support of workers.
   #workersday #mayday #InternationalWorkersDay #heritagemanagement
   #heritage #culturalheritagemanagement #culturalheritage #heritagenation
   #culture #heritagemanagementorganization #intangibleculturalheritage
   #unite4heritage #heritage4generations
   Conservation is critical to preserving the physica Conservation is
   critical to preserving the physical and cultural characteristics of
   heritage objects, and ensuring their value is not diminished. Our new
   3-day “Introduction to the General Principles of Cultural Heritage
   Conservation” course on 26-28 May 2023 is led by Alexis Stefanis, an
   Assistant Professor at the Department of Conservation of Antiquities
   and Works of Art of Πανεπιστήμιο Δυτικής Αττικής / University of West
   Attica, Greece, who will provide heritage professionals with an
   overview of the principles and objectives of conservation, outlining
   its methodology, ethics, evolution, and contemporary international
   context. 🔹 Apply for the workshop by May 7 👆 link in bio #conservation
   #workshop #training #heritagemanagement #heritage
   #culturalheritagemanagement #culturalheritage #heritagenation #culture
   #heritagemanagementorganization #intangibleculturalheritage
   #unite4heritage #heritage4generations
   Are you a student, just graduated, or a young prof Are you a student,
   just graduated, or a young professional and want to enrich your
   expertise with essential spatial technology skills? The new academic
   certificate Digital Tools for Heritage Management offered by HERITΛGE
   and @hogeschool_gent is for you! This exchange program awards 30 ECTS
   credit units, equivalent to 50% of a full year. Apply by May 1 for the
   academic year starting October 2023 👆 link in bio #ects #digitaltools
   #certificate #heritagemanagement #heritage #culturalheritagemanagement
   #culturalheritage #heritagenation #culture
   #heritagemanagementorganization #spatialdata #GIS #laserscanning
   #3Dmodeling #communitymanagement
   In March, a three-day online workshop on “Succes In March, a three-day
   online workshop on “Successful Fundraising for Heritage Managers:
   Strategies and Best Practices” was held, aimed at equipping heritage
   managers with fundraising skills and strategies to start-up and build
   their organizations’ contributed revenue for increased impact in the
   world. The workshop had 13 participants from Africa (Egypt, Ethiopia,
   Kenya, Namibia, Sudan), Asia (India), and Europe (Greece, Norway,
   Serbia, United Kingdom), who were trained on fundraising best
   practices. #workshop #fundraising #training #heritagemanagement
   #heritage #culturalheritagemanagement #culturalheritage #heritagenation
   #culture #heritagemanagementorganization #intangibleculturalheritage
   #unite4heritage #heritage4generations
   Load More Follow on Instagram

CONTACT US

     * ADDRESS
       US: 810W Washington Blvd,
       Suite 260, Chicago IL 60607,
       GR: 3-5 Anaxagora str., Athens, 105 52,
       Gambia: Barra, North Bank Region
     * PHONE NO
       +30 216 700 33 25 #301
     * EMAIL ID
       [email protected]
     * WEB ADDRESS
       https://heritagemanagement.org/

Follow us

   Copyright 2015-23. All rights reserved.
     * Privacy Policy
     * Contact Us

   Newsletter Sign-up</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-18">
<text>   [tr?id=451368485840920ev=PageViewnoscript=1] Skip to main content
   Skip to navigation

   IFRAME: //www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-KTR8VW

   NSW Department of Planning and Environment

   (BUTTON) Open navigation - further below
   NSW Government logo (BUTTON) Show search overlay
   NSW Government logo
   NSW Government logo
   (BUTTON) Show search overlay
     * Home
     * Topics
          +
               o Back
               o Heritage
               o Animals and plants
               o Parks, reserves and protected areas
               o Air
               o Water
               o Fire
               o Land and soil
               o Energy
               o Sustainability

Heritage
               o Back
               o Go to Heritage
               o About heritage
               o Request a heritage listing
               o Manage heritage items
               o Search heritage databases
               o Apply for heritage approvals and permits
               o Heritage grants
               o Celebrate heritage
               o Aboriginal Cultural Heritage Advisory Committee
               o Heritage Council of NSW

Animals and plants
               o Back
               o Go to Animals and plants
               o Biodiversity conservation
               o Biodiversity Offsets Scheme
               o Conservation programs
               o Surveys, monitoring and records
               o Native animals
               o Threatened species
               o Wildlife management
               o Wildlife licences
               o Native vegetation
               o Pest animals and weeds

Parks, reserves and protected areas
               o Back
               o Go to Parks, reserves and protected areas
               o Visit a national park
               o Types of protected areas
               o Establishing new parks and protected areas
               o Park management
               o Park policies
               o Commercial activities in parks
               o Development guidelines
               o Current park closures, fire and safety alerts

Air
               o Back
               o Go to Air
               o NSW Clean Air Strategy
               o About the Air program
               o Current air quality
               o Sydney forecast
               o Air quality data services
               o Air pollution episodes
               o Air quality monitoring network
               o Understanding air quality data
               o Air quality basics
               o Research
               o NSW air quality statements
               o Publications

Water
               o Back
               o Go to Water
               o Coasts
               o Estuaries
               o Floodplains
               o Wetlands
               o Water for the environment
               o Water quality
               o Beaches

Fire
               o Back
               o Go to Fire
               o Fire facts
               o Managing fire
               o Fire management strategies
               o Fire safety in parks
               o Plants, animals and fire
               o Park recovery and rehabilitation
               o Research
               o

Land and soil
               o Back
               o Go to Land and soil
               o Managing land and soil
               o
               o Soil degradation
               o Land and soil information
               o Soil publications
               o Geodiversity

Energy
               o Back
               o Go to Energy
               o Households
               o Business
               o Government and regulation

Sustainability
               o Back
               o Go to Sustainability
               o Sustainability Advantage
     * Research  publications
          + Back
          + Your research
          + Our science and research
          + SEED data portal
          + BioNet biodiversity data
          + Publications
          + Image library
     * Funding  support
          + Back
          + Grants
          + NSW Environmental Trust
          + Sponsorship
     * Licences  permits
          + Back
          + Wildlife licences
          + Scientific licences
          + Protected native plant licences
          + Threatened species impact licences
          + Aboriginal heritage impact permit
          + Heritage permits and applications
          + Native vegetation clearing approvals
          + National parks passes and permits
          + Commercial activities in parks
     * About us
          + Back
          + Who we are
          + Careers
          + Commercial activities in parks
          + Find information
          + Report a problem or incident
          + Access to information
          + News
          + Videos of us at work
          + Contact us
          + Our website
          + Privacy and security
          + Copyright and disclaimer

     * News  media

     * News  media

   Dialog start
   What are you looking for? Start typing, then use the up and down arrows
   to select an option from the list
   ____________________

   (BUTTON) "Search"
   Dialog end
   open description
   icon camera

   close description
   close description

   Environment and Heritage

   Thriving, sustainable and resilient NSW

What would you like to do today?

     * Apply for a licence
     * Get involved
     * Find information
     * Report a problem
     * Teach and learn
     * Explore local resources

   Scroll for more

Stay up to date

   Beach with rip shown as gap in waves

School holiday safety in seaside national parks

   NPWS ranger showing a preschool aged child how to trace around a leaf

Pick your ho-ho-holiday adventure in Hunter and Central Coast national parks

   Belmore Falls from Belmore lookout, Morton National Park

Warning when visiting waterfalls

   Young koala (Phascolarctos cinereus) in Red Rum Forest, Lismore

NSW Koala Summit puts koalas in the spotlight

   NPWs staff overseeing box with eggs sacked in it

First known sea turtle nesting of the season on NSW Mid North Coast

   Solar farm solar panels

NSW secures more renewable energy projects

   Major slip on Baranbali Road, Mooball National Park

Dangerous excursion into national park flood recovery works zone costs
four-wheel driver almost $5,000

   Palm forest walking track, Border Ranges National Park

Current park closures, fire and safety alerts

   Clouds, weather pattern

Current air quality

   Old post office building with verandah looking over the garden, Hartley
   Historic Site

Unique national parks commercial locations up for lease

   See all

Connect with us

   Skip Connect with us

Your local environment

Explore your region

   Choose one of the options below to learn more about your region.

Select a region from the map:

Choose from the list:

     * Metropolitan Sydney
     * Central West and Orana
     * Hunter
     * Murray-Murrumbidgee
     * North Coast

     * Central Coast
     * Far West
     * Illawarra
     * New England-North West
     * South East and Tablelands

Enter your address:

   search
   ____________________
   (BUTTON) Search for my region

   Unable to find matching region in New South Wales. Please choose a
   region from the list.
   (BUTTON) Locate me

Air quality

Regional information

     * Metropolitan Sydney
     * Central Coast
     * Central West and Orana
     * Far West
     * Hunter
     * Illawarra
     * Murray-Murrumbidgee
     * New England-North West
     * North Coast
     * South East and Tablelands

Policy and law

     * Legislation
     * Policies
     * Public registers
     * Litigation
     * Compliance and enforcement

About this website

     * Who we are
     * Our website
     * Privacy and security
     * Copyright and disclaimer

Contact us

     * Email
     * Office
     * Have your say
     * Feedback or complaint

   We pay respect to the Traditional Custodians and the First people of
   NSW, and acknowledge their continued connection to their Country and
   culture.
   (BUTTON) Top
   Please consider the environment before printing.</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-19">
<text>   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-KPR8BWH

     *

     * Call us
     * Email us
     * Live chat
     * Find a branch

   (BUTTON) Toggle navigation Heritage Bank - People First
     * Banking

Accounts
          + Interest rates
          + Ways to bank with us
          + Business Accounts
          + Calculators
          + Open an account
          +
          + Budget Planner
          + Savings Calculator
          + Term Deposit Calculator

Credit Cards
          + Find the card that fits you
          + Compare all cards
          + Balance transfer
          + Rewards
          + Credit Card enquiry
          +

More
          + Term Deposits
          + Insurance
          + Business Banking
          + International  Travel Banking
          + Financial planning
          + Contact us 24/7
          +
     * Loans

Home Loans
          + Find the loan that fits you
          + Interest rates
          + Calculators
          + Compare all Home Loans
          + Home Loan enquiry
          +
          + Buy your first home
          + Buy your next home
          + Refinance to Heritage
          + Buy an investment property
          + Fixed rates
          + Variable rates
          + All interest rates
          + Home Loan repayment calculator
          + Borrowing power calculator
          + Refinance calculator
          + Extra repayment calculator
          + All Calculators

Personal Loans
          + Car Loan
          + Calculators
          + Compare all Personal Loans
          + Personal Loan enquiry
          +
          + Borrowing power calculator
          + Personal Loan repayment calculator
          + Car Loan repayment calculator

Business Loans
          + Business Equipment Loan
          + Interest rates
          + Business Loan enquiry
          +
     * Business

Business Banking
          + Business Accounts
          + Business Visa Credit Card
          + Business Loans
          + Interest rates
          + Business enquiry
          +

Support
          + Activate a card
          + Business Payment Tools
          + Hardship Assistance
          + Internet Banking Assistance
          + Financial Tips
          + Guide to starting a business
          +
     * Calculators

Savings Calculators
          + Budget planner
          + Savings calculator
          + Income tax calculator
          + Term deposit calculator
          + Expense planner
          +

Home Loan Calculators
          + Home loan calculator
          + Borrowing power calculator
          + Refinance calculator
          + Extra repayment calculator
          +

Personal Loan Calculators
          + Borrowing power calculator
          + Personal loan repayment calculator
          + Car loan repayment calculator
          +
     * Support

Support
          + Scam alerts  fraud help
          + Account help
          + Card Account Help
          + Internet banking help
          + Hardship assistance
          + FAQs
          + Forms  brochures
          +
          + Activate a card
          + Activate a gift card
          + Change your card PIN
          + Losing a loved one
          + Forms
          + Brochures

I want to...
          + Switch to Heritage
          + Buy a home
          + Buy a car
          + Invest in property
          + Start a business
          + Travel more
          + Apply for sponsorship
          +
     * Financial Tips

All financial tips
          + Business
          + Buying a car
          + Buying a home
          + Credit
          + Home renovation
          + Investing
          + Kids  Teens
          + Retirement
          + Migrant banking
          + Over 65 support
          + Saving  budgeting
          + Security  scams
          + Travelling
          +
     * About

About us
          + Our locations
          + News
          + Customer Owned Banking
          + Careers
          + Member centre
          + Merger news
          +

Heritage in the community
          + Heritage Bank Stadium
          + Photographic Awards
          + Community Branches
          + Refer a friend
          + Sustainability
          + Our Charitable Foundation
          +

Follow us
          + Facebook
          + Youtube
          + Instagram
          + LinkedIn
          + X (Twitter)
          +

   Login
   ____________________
   Submit
     * Internet Banking
     * Internet Banking
     * Download the app
     * Online Share Trading
     * Business Netbanking

   Back
   Home
   Call us
   Chat
   Email us
   Locations

Say hello to banking that puts you first.

   At Heritage, we’ve been committed to Australian communities since 1875.
   In a world where so much has changed, our mission to put people before
   profits, never has.

   Awards for Bank of the Year - Customer Service and Customer-Owned
   Institution of the Year
   Switch to Heritage

About this Rate

   (BUTTON)

   (BUTTON) Close this Window

Heritage Bank can help you with

   ""

Banking 

     * Accounts
     * Credit cards
     * International

   ""

Loans 

     * Home loans
     * Personal loans
     * Business loans

   ""

Insurance 

     * Car insurance
     * Home insurance
     * Landlord insurance

   ""

Business 

     * Accounts
     * Business loans
     * Business credit card

   ""

 Investment 

     * Term deposits
     * Financial planning
     * Superannuation

   ""

Calculators 

     * Home loan calculators
     * Personal loan calculators
     * Savings calculators

     Heritage Bank can help you with...
     * "" Accounts
     * "" Loans
     * "" Insurance
     * "" Credit cards
     * International  travel banking
     * "" Business Banking
     * "" Investment
     * "" Calculators and tools
     * Support Help with my account

   Personal loans

   Our personal loans are packed with features like low interest rates,
   unlimited extra repayments and free online redraw.

   Starlight Christmas Appeal
   Help fulfil Starlight’s mission of brightening the lives of sick kids
   and teens around Australia by donating a gift in the Heritage and
   People’s Choice National Christmas Appeal.

   Research tools
   Calculators Guides Interest rates
   Home loan repayment calculator
   Borrowing power calculator
   Personal loan repayment calculator
   The home loan application process
   Buying a car
   Switch to Heritage
   Home loan interest rates
   Account interest rates
   Compare credit cards

   These articles may help you
   How to choose the best savings account for you
   Saving throughout your lifetime is important, so making sure you have
   the right account is key.
   Ready for a sneak peek?
   Heritage and People's Choice have officially merged to create a new
   national mutual that offers a compelling alternative to the big banks,
   and we'd like to share our new brand with you.

   Contact us 24/7
   Our local Australian contact centre is waiting for you. Call us 24/7 on
   13 14 22. If overseas, call +617 4690 9000.
   Learn more
   Our locations
   Visit us in branch today. Our branch locator can help you find the
   closest Heritage Bank branch or ATM near you.
   Learn more
   Scam help
   Fight scammers with the help of Heritage. Report scams to us 24/7 on 13
   14 22 and keep up to date with our latest scam alerts.
   Learn more
   Sustainability
   We understand that the longevity of our society depends on the
   sustainability of our environment, communities and business practices.
   Learn more

Proudly supporting people's firsts.

   Helping our customers achieve their firsts in life and reach their
   financial dreams is at the heart of all we do. Whether it's your first
   car, home or business, we're proud to support your journey every step
   of the way.
   Awards for Bank of the Year - Customer Service and Customer-Owned
   Institution of the Year
   Learn about our member's firsts

   Top

Things you should know

   *

   This material has been prepared without taking into account your
   objectives, financial situation or needs ('your circumstances'). Before
   making a decision, consider whether any advice given is appropriate to
   your circumstances, and read the relevant terms and conditions and
   Product Disclosure Statement (available in-branch or at
   heritage.com.au). Lending criteria, limits, conditions, fees and
   charges apply. Target Market Determinations available at
   www.heritage.com.au/TMD. Information could change without notice.

   </text>
</page> §
<page="EN-2">
<text>   #Connecting Directors » Feed Connecting Directors » Heritage Family
   Continues to Grow in 2022 Comments Feed

Get The Latest Articles In Your Inbox Daily

   ____________________
   ____________________
   Subscribe

   [cd-logo.png]

     * Home
     * News
          + Cremation
          + Green Funerals
          + Grief  Loss
          + Funeral Industry Press Releases
     * Lighter Side
     * Marketing
          + Social Media
          + Customer Service
     * Jobs
     * About Us
          + Advertise With Us
          + Contact Us
          + Speaking
          + Social Media Marketing for Funeral Homes
          + Privacy Policy
     * The Daily Hearse

   ____________________

Connecting Directors

   ____________________

     * Home
     * News
          + Cremation
          + Green Funerals
          + Grief  Loss
          + Funeral Industry Press Releases
     * Lighter Side
     * Marketing
          + Social Media
          + Customer Service
     * Jobs
     * About Us
          + Advertise With Us
          + Contact Us
          + Speaking
          + Social Media Marketing for Funeral Homes
          + Privacy Policy
     * The Daily Hearse

   ____________________
     * Home
     * News
          + Cremation
          + Green Funerals
          + Grief  Loss
          + Funeral Industry Press Releases
     * Lighter Side
     * Marketing
          + Social Media
          + Customer Service
     * Jobs
     * About Us
          + Advertise With Us
          + Contact Us
          + Speaking
          + Social Media Marketing for Funeral Homes
          + Privacy Policy
     * The Daily Hearse

Heritage Family Continues to Grow in 2022

   Funeral Industry News Funeral Industry Press Releases January 3, 2023
   Heritage Funeral
   CDFuneralNews CDFuneralNews CDFuneralNews

   We believe that every funeral director should have the tools to
   succeed. With the help of our field-leading partners, we publish daily
   funeral industry news and provide free tools to help our readers
   advance their careers and grow their businesses. Our editorial focus on
   the future, covering impact-conscious funeral care, trends, tech,
   marketing, and exploring how today's funeral news affects your future.

   IFRAME:
   https://www.facebook.com/plugins/share_button.php?href=https%3A%2F%2Fco
   nnectingdirectors.com%2F64947-heritage-family-2022layout=button_count
   size=smallwidth=88height=20appId

   Tweet
                     ___________________________________

Heritage Family Continues to Grow in 2022

   Heritage Family of Elizabethton, Tennessee completed a very successful
   year in 2022.  Renee Lockhart, President and Chief Executive Officer of
   Heritage Family stated, “2022 was the most successful year in the
   history of our company.  Not only did we serve more families than any
   year before 2022, we entered or expanded our presence in nine different
   markets with the addition of 34 locations.  In 2022 we added 30 new
   funeral homes, three affordable cremation facilities, and one pet
   cremation business. The newly acquired locations will serve 4700
   families per year. We are proud to be associated with these additional
   high-quality partners for Heritage.  We are equally proud of our
   at-need and pre-need staff who continually went the extra mile to serve
   families throughout the year.”

   In the second quarter of 2022 Heritage purchased the four Langeland
   Funeral Homes and a low-cost cremation business in Kalamazoo, MI, the
   Lancaster Funeral Home in Lancaster, SC and the Wolfe Funeral Home in
   Fort Mill, SC.

   During the third quarter of 2022 Heritage purchased the Click Funeral
   Homes in Knoxville, TN, the McGill-Click Funeral Home in Loudon, TN,
   the Costner-Maloy Funeral Home in Newport, TN and the Evergreen Group
   of funeral homes which consisted of the Lindsey Funeral Home in
   Paducah, KY and the Smith Funeral Chapel in Smithland, KY, the
   Cremation Society of North Carolina and the Capital Funeral Home, both
   located Raleigh, NC, the Gentry-Griffey Funeral Home in Knoxville TN,
   the Manchester Funeral Home and Coffee County Funeral Home, both
   located in Manchester TN and Tullahoma Funeral Home located in
   Tullahoma, TN.

   In the fourth quarter of 2022 Heritage purchased the Carlson Funeral
   Homes in Medina, Brunswick and Garrettsville, OH, Becker Funeral Homes
   with four locations, the Lane Funeral Homes with eight locations, and
   the Baumgardner Funeral Homes with two locations, all being located in
   the Youngstown-Warren, OH metropolitan area.

   The company plans to continue its’ growth in 2023 by acquisition as
   well as organic growth.  Heritage Family anticipates serving over
   17,000 families through its’ existing funeral homes and cemeteries in
   2023.

   Heritage Family operates in eleven states with 105 locations consisting
   of 82 funeral homes, ten cemeteries, nine low-cost cremation facilities
   and four pet cremation businesses.

   For information about joining Heritage Family, contact Richard Tetrick,
   Director of Corporate Development at (423) 512-1111 or
   richard@heritagefamily.com  .
   Heritage Family

   IFRAME:
   https://www.facebook.com/plugins/share_button.php?href=https%3A%2F%2Fco
   nnectingdirectors.com%2F64947-heritage-family-2022layout=button_count
   size=smallwidth=88height=20appId

   Tweet
   Deathcare Football Bowl Game

If Deathcare Sponsored College Bowl Games

   Patricia Hartley January 3, 2024
   Pierce Colleges

Pierce Colleges of Funeral Service Names Joseph Finocchiaro Chief Executive
Officer and President

   CDFuneralNews January 2, 2024
   4M 119

Horse Plumes  Marjorie’s Misinformation | 4M #119

   Patricia Hartley January 1, 2024
   (BUTTON) Load Comments (0)

Get Daily Email Updates

   ____________________
   ____________________
   (Subscribe) Subscribe

   IFRAME:
   https://www.youtube.com/embed/D2sNQj4C83Y?version=3rel=1showsearch=0
   showinfo=1iv_load_policy=1fs=1hl=en-USautohide=2wmode=transparent

Electric Vehicles Impact Funeral Homes?

Latest posts

   Deathcare Football Bowl Game

If Deathcare Sponsored College Bowl Games

   Pierce Colleges

Pierce Colleges of Funeral Service Names Joseph Finocchiaro Chief Executive
Officer and President

   4M 119

Horse Plumes  Marjorie’s Misinformation | 4M #119

   IFRAME:
   https://www.deathcarejobs.com/widget/jobs?w%5Bhide_page_title%5D=1

   Copyright ©2024 Connecting Directors

   [tr?id=1811033249001641ev=PageViewnoscript=1]</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-20">
<text>   Due to scheduled maintenance, MyCouncil will be unavailable between
   5.15pm Friday 12 January 2024 and 8.00am Monday 15 January 2024. We
   apologise for any inconvenience.
   (BUTTON) Our sites[production] 1.3.0.1130
   (BUTTON) Accessibility
   Help  SupportContact CouncilMyCouncil
    1. Home
    2. ...Council
    3. ...Planning and projects
    4. Council plans
    5. Sunshine Coast heritage plan

   In this section
   Toggle menu
     * Sunshine Coast Reconciliation Action Plan
     * Local disaster management plan
     * All Abilities Action Plan 2024-2028
     * Corporate Plan, Operational Plan and Quarterly Reports
     * Ballinger Park Sports Complex Master Plan
     * Beerwah Sportsground Master Plan
     * Caloundra Central Park Sport Recreation Precinct Master Plan
     * Caloundra Centre Master Plan
     * Caloundra Public Art Plan
     * Caloundra Town Reserve Landscape Concept Plan
     * Coastal Pathway Linear Open Space Master Plan
     * Conondale Memorial Recreation Park Master Plan
     * Coolum Sports Complex Master Plan
     * Crummunda Park Landscape Plan
     * Dicky Beach Precinct Plan
     * Elizabeth Daniels Sports Complex Master Plan
     * Environmental Reserves Network Management Plan
     * Glasshouse Mountains Sports Complex Master Plan
     * Honey Farm Sport and Recreation Precinct Master Plan
     * Inter-Urban Break Outdoor Recreation Plan
     * Lower Order Unsealed Roads Upgrade Plan
     * Maleny community precinct
     * Maleny sport and recreation master plan
     * Maroochydore Junior Rugby League Club Facility Development Plan
     * Maroochydore Multi Sports Complex Master Plan
     * Meridan Fields Sporting Complex Master Plan
     * Mooloolah Recreation Reserve Master Plan
     * Nambour Showgrounds Master Plan
     * Palmwoods Sports Complex Master Plan
     * Petrie Creek parklands open space master plan
     * Placemaking Mooloolaba master plan
     * Placemaking Palmwoods master plan
     * Point Cartwright Reserve La Balsa Park Master Plan
     * Regional Facilities Plan for Difficult to Locate Sports
     * Reserve 1000 Master Plan
     * Road safety plan
     * Sippy Downs parks master plan
     * Sunshine Coast street tree master plan
     * Sunshine Coast active transport plan
     * Sunshine Coast Aquatic Plan
     * Sunshine Coast creative arts plan
     * Sunshine Coast cemetery plan
     * Sunshine Coast Council asset management plans
     * Sunshine Coast Council local government area biosecurity plan
     * Sunshine Coast Council organisational zero-net emissions plan
     * Sunshine Coast heritage plan
     * Sunshine Coast Housing and Homelessness Action Plan 2023
     * Sunshine Coast Infrastructure Coordination Plan
     * Sunshine Coast libraries plan
     * Sunshine Coast parking management plan
     * Sunshine Coast recreation parks plan
     * Sunshine Coast Recreation Trail Plan 2012
     * Sunshine Coast skate and BMX plan
     * Sunshine Coast sport and active recreation plan
     * Unsealed roads upgrade plan
     * Urban public lighting master plan

Sunshine Coast heritage plan

     Council adopted the Sunshine Coast Heritage Plan 2021-2031 at its
     Ordinary Meeting 25 February 2021.

   (BUTTON) Share
   (BUTTON) Print

   The Heritage Plan 2021-2031 (PDF, 2782KB) covers the conservation and
   management of the important things we want to pass on to future
   generations.

Purpose

   The heritage plan provides council with a framework to guide the
   identification, protection, conservation and management of the region’s
   heritage. The plan will ensure that council effectively manages and
   conserves the region’s heritage assets.

Overview

   The heritage plan covers all aspects of the Sunshine Coast’s cultural
   and natural heritage, which council has direct responsibility for or
   influence over.

   The plan's vision declares that ‘our heritage is our gift for the
   future’. It has been structured around the five outcome areas of:
     * knowledge
     * conservation
     * support
     * communication
     * advocacy.

   The implementation plan guides council's actions for the duration of 10
   years.

Community engagement

   Extensive consultation was conducted with external stakeholders
   including:
     * traditional owners and custodians
     * representatives from the heritage sector
     * Sunshine Coast heritage reference group.

   Peer reviews were undertaken by:
     * Queensland Department of Environment and Science
     * National Trust of Australia (Queensland)
     * Queensland Museum
     * Queensland Heritage Council.

   The Heritage Plan 2021-2031 is based on the framework of the Sunshine
   Coast Heritage Plan 2015-2020 (PDF, 8452KB).

Contacts

   For more information, contact council's cultural heritage
   services officers on (07) 5420 8600, or email [email protected].

   Further information about the heritage levy, our programs and
   activities can be explored on our heritage website.
   Sunshine Coast Council acknowledges the Sunshine Coast Country, home of
   the Kabi Kabi peoples and the Jinibara peoples, the Traditional
   Custodians, whose lands and waters we all now share.
   We commit to working in partnership with the Traditional Custodians and
   the broader First Nations (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander)
   community to support self-determination through economic and community
   development.
   Council offices
   General contacts
   Councillor contacts
   Development contacts
   Site help  accessibility
   Website supportAccessibilitySCC App
   Sign-up for our newsletter
   ____________________ (BUTTON) Signup
   Follow us
   (BUTTON) Accessibility
   Version 1.3.0.1130 Terms of use and privacy
   © Sunshine Coast Regional Council 2008 - 2024</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-21">
<text>   #alternate alternate alternate

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-PCKF642

   Toggle menu
   image/svg+xml

     * Projects
     * People
     * News

     * About Us
     * Careers
     * Contact Us
     * Services
     * Search

     * Sydney—+61 2 9319 4811
     * Canberra—+61 2 6273 7540
     * Melbourne—+61 3 9380 6933

   Close

   We respect and acknowledge the First Nations people of the lands and
   waters on which we live and work and we acknowledge their Elders past
   and present.

   Your browser does not support the video tag.

Shaping the Future of Heritage

   GML Heritage is at the forefront of Australian heritage and
   archaeological consulting, connecting people and place for over 30
   years.
   Find us in Sydney, Canberra and Melbourne.

   [044070-web-1024x757.jpg]

   News

   Gaslighting heritage
   [MG_8417-web-e1704236779291-1024x645.webp]

   Projects

   The Gunnery Transformation
   [Statues_eNews-1-black-1024x569.png]

   News

   Statues: history or hindrance?
   [Opening-of-Dixon-Street-pedestrian-mall-Chinatown-Haymarket-1980-City-
   of-Sydney-copy-for-web-e1702514905952-1024x464.webp]

   Projects

   Chinatown Gates, Haymarket
   [Stewart-House-landscape-1.jpg]

   News

   Canberra’s mid-century heritage
   [DSCN8864-web-1024x687.jpg]

   Projects

   Royal Exhibition Building and Carlton Gardens
   [DSC_2355-1-1024x683.jpg]

   News

   GML wins two Interpretation Australia awards
   [Image-5-1024x693.png]

   Jobs

   Join our Melbourne team: Archaeologist/Heritage Consultant
   [04-Website-Fairfax-FXB47153--1024x690.jpg]

   News

   Walking tour—Sydney’s ever changing heritage
   [MLC-2-e1695620934648.jpg]

   Projects

   MLC North Sydney
   [Darling-PS-image-AW-Edwards-e1695096128772-1024x600.jpg]

   Projects

   Darlington Public School Redevelopment
   [SLNSW_FL9545722-e1701130567596.jpg]

   Projects

   Chinatown Thematic History
   [Photograph-of-Braidwood-for-community-engagement-program.jpg]

   News

   Braidwood and its Setting: State Heritage Register Listing Management
   Review
   [IMG_9031-1024x768.jpg]

   Projects

   Sydney Metro Parramatta Station
   [20220409_153523-1024x768.jpg]

   Projects

   Balwyn’s Interwar Heritage Homes
   [TA2020-136_Tony-Albert_You-Wreck-Me-9_2020-cropped-internal-use-only-e
   1684289135897-1024x647.webp]

   News

   GML launches first Reconciliation Action Plan
   [msep.jpg]

   Projects

   Macquarie Street East Precinct
   [GML-057-1024x723.webp]

   News

   Winner – Best Heritage Consulting Firm
   [Mooramong-storm-damage-Oct-2021-1024x633.jpg]

   Projects

   Heritage and Climate Change Project
   [DSC_6249-1024x684.jpg]

   Projects

   Ku-ring-gai Chase National Park Interpretation

   Let's work together—get in touch

Sydney

   Level 17, 323 Castlereagh Street
   Haymarket NSW 2000
   +61 2 9319 4811

Canberra

   PO Box 3171
   Manuka ACT 2603
   +61 2 6273 7540

Melbourne

   17 Drummond Street
   Carlton VIC 3053
   +61 3 9380 6933

   heritage@gml.com.au
     * Instagram
     * LinkedIn

   We respect and acknowledge the First Nations Peoples of the lands and
   waters on which we live and work, their rich cultural heritage and deep
   connection to Country, and we acknowledge their Elders past and
   present. We are committed to truth-telling and to engaging with First
   Nations Peoples to support the protection of their culture and
   heritage. We strongly advocate social, cultural and political justice
   and support the Uluru Statement from the Heart.

   [logo_iso.png]

   GML Heritage—ABN 60 001 179 362
   GML Heritage Victoria P/L—ABN 31 620 754 761

   © All rights reserved—Site by Pollen</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-22">
<text>    #National Trust » Feed National Trust » Comments Feed

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-KKCWPHJ

   National Trust
   (BUTTON) Toggle navigation
   Event Organisers Contact

     * Home
     * About
     * Festival Near Me
          + ACT
          + NSW
          + NT
          + QLD
          + SA
          + TAS
          + VIC
          + WA

     * National
     * ACT
     * NSW
     * NT
     * Qld
     * SA
     * Tas
     * Vic
     * WA

   Welcome to the Australian Heritage FestivalWelcome to the Australian
   Heritage FestivalAustralia’s biggest community driven Heritage Festival

   banner image

Australian Heritage Festival (Victoria)

   18 April to 18 May 2024

Australia’s biggest community driven Heritage Festival

   The National Trust of Australia (Victoria) is excited to announce that
   Australia’s biggest community driven Heritage Festival will run from
   Thursday 18 April to Saturday 18 May 2024 in Victoria. The festival is
   an opportunity for the community to immerse themselves in the state’s
   rich and diverse heritage, offering unmatched access to unique
   exhibitions, tours, talks, workshops and more.

   The 2024 Theme is Connections

   Encouraging celebration of the rich and diverse stories of our nation,
   strengthening cultural and historical ties and forging new bonds. The
   2024 theme acknowledges our link to people, places and the past, and
   the enduring connections that will shape the future of heritage.

   Key Dates
     * Event Registrations Open
       13 November 2023
     * Registrations for inclusion in our Digital Program and Itineraries
       close
       1 February 2024
     * Final Registrations for inclusion on the Australian Heritage
       Festival Website close
       1 April 2024

   Subscribe below to stay up to date on details for the Australian
   Heritage Festival 2024.
     __________________________________________________________________

   The Australian Heritage Festival (Victoria) is proudly sponsored by
   Heritage Council Victoria.






Event Registration Now Open

   Register Online

Related content section

   2024 Event Organisers' Kit

2024 Event Organisers' Kit

   By hosting an event, you’re providing new opportunities for the
   community to access and celebrate heritage around the state.
   Start planning your event
   Join our Mailing List

Join our Mailing List

   Subscribe to our National Trust eNews to receive festival highlights,
   heritage news, advocacy campaigns and events direct to your inbox.
   Subscribe here
   Look Back: 2023 Festival Program

Look Back: 2023 Festival Program

   Look back at some of the highlights and special events we enjoyed as
   part of the 2023 Australia Heritage Festival Victoria
   Read 2023 Festival Program

Get in touch

Get in touch

   festival@nattrust.com.au

   (03) 9656 9879
   Find us on facebookFind us on twitterFind us on instagram

Contact

   Sitewide contact form
     * Name*
       ____________________
     * Email*
       ____________________
     * Telephone
       ____________________
     * Subject
       ____________________
     * Message*

       __________________________________________________
       __________________________________________________
       __________________________________________________
       __________________________________________________
       __________________________________________________
       __________________________________________________
       __________________________________________________
       __________________________________________________
       __________________________________________________
       __________________________________________________
     *
     * Email
       ____________________
       This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.

   Send

   Δ
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________

   IFRAME: gform_ajax_frame_1

Subscribe

     * State
       [Select State]
     * Email*
       ____________________
     * Hidden
       Referrer
       https://www.national
     * Hidden
       ahf_referrer
          + (*) Yes
     * Hidden
       ahf_referrer_vic
          + (*) Yes
     * Hidden
       non_ahf_referrer_vic
          + (*) Yes
     * Email
       ____________________
       This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.

   Submit

   Δ
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________

   IFRAME: gform_ajax_frame_8

     * Home
     * About
     * Festival Near Me
          + ACT
          + NSW
          + NT
          + QLD
          + SA
          + TAS
          + VIC
          + WA

   Australian Heritage Festival
   National Trust
   follow us on facebookfollow us on twitterfollow us on instagram
   Address: Australian Heritage Festival GPO Box 518, Sydney NSW 2001
   The National Trusts of Australia acknowledge Traditional Owners of the
   land and pay our respect to Elders past, present and emerging. We
   acknowledge the spiritual, physical and cultural connection Aboriginal
   people have with their country as the first peoples of the land now
   known as Australia. We respectfully advise that this website may
   contain images of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people who have
   died.

   © 2024 National Trust

Stay in Touch

   Be the first to hear about our latest news, get inspiration for great
   days out and learn about the work we do to protect Victoria’s heritage.


   SIGN UP NOW


   (BUTTON)</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-23">
<text>   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-KPR8BWH

     *

     * Call us
     * Email us
     * Live chat
     * Find a branch

   (BUTTON) Toggle navigation Heritage Bank - People First
     * Banking

Accounts
          + Interest rates
          + Ways to bank with us
          + Business Accounts
          + Calculators
          + Open an account
          +
          + Budget Planner
          + Savings Calculator
          + Term Deposit Calculator

Credit Cards
          + Find the card that fits you
          + Compare all cards
          + Balance transfer
          + Rewards
          + Credit Card enquiry
          +

More
          + Term Deposits
          + Insurance
          + Business Banking
          + International  Travel Banking
          + Financial planning
          + Contact us 24/7
          +
     * Loans

Home Loans
          + Find the loan that fits you
          + Interest rates
          + Calculators
          + Compare all Home Loans
          + Home Loan enquiry
          +
          + Buy your first home
          + Buy your next home
          + Refinance to Heritage
          + Buy an investment property
          + Fixed rates
          + Variable rates
          + All interest rates
          + Home Loan repayment calculator
          + Borrowing power calculator
          + Refinance calculator
          + Extra repayment calculator
          + All Calculators

Personal Loans
          + Car Loan
          + Calculators
          + Compare all Personal Loans
          + Personal Loan enquiry
          +
          + Borrowing power calculator
          + Personal Loan repayment calculator
          + Car Loan repayment calculator

Business Loans
          + Business Equipment Loan
          + Interest rates
          + Business Loan enquiry
          +
     * Business

Business Banking
          + Business Accounts
          + Business Visa Credit Card
          + Business Loans
          + Interest rates
          + Business enquiry
          +

Support
          + Activate a card
          + Business Payment Tools
          + Hardship Assistance
          + Internet Banking Assistance
          + Financial Tips
          + Guide to starting a business
          +
     * Calculators

Savings Calculators
          + Budget planner
          + Savings calculator
          + Income tax calculator
          + Term deposit calculator
          + Expense planner
          +

Home Loan Calculators
          + Home loan calculator
          + Borrowing power calculator
          + Refinance calculator
          + Extra repayment calculator
          +

Personal Loan Calculators
          + Borrowing power calculator
          + Personal loan repayment calculator
          + Car loan repayment calculator
          +
     * Support

Support
          + Scam alerts  fraud help
          + Account help
          + Card Account Help
          + Internet banking help
          + Hardship assistance
          + FAQs
          + Forms  brochures
          +
          + Activate a card
          + Activate a gift card
          + Change your card PIN
          + Losing a loved one
          + Forms
          + Brochures

I want to...
          + Switch to Heritage
          + Buy a home
          + Buy a car
          + Invest in property
          + Start a business
          + Travel more
          + Apply for sponsorship
          +
     * Financial Tips

All financial tips
          + Business
          + Buying a car
          + Buying a home
          + Credit
          + Home renovation
          + Investing
          + Kids  Teens
          + Retirement
          + Migrant banking
          + Over 65 support
          + Saving  budgeting
          + Security  scams
          + Travelling
          +
     * About

About us
          + Our locations
          + News
          + Customer Owned Banking
          + Careers
          + Member centre
          + Merger news
          +

Heritage in the community
          + Heritage Bank Stadium
          + Photographic Awards
          + Community Branches
          + Refer a friend
          + Sustainability
          + Our Charitable Foundation
          +

Follow us
          + Facebook
          + Youtube
          + Instagram
          + LinkedIn
          + X (Twitter)
          +

   Login
   ____________________
   Submit
     * Internet Banking
     * Internet Banking
     * Download the app
     * Online Share Trading
     * Business Netbanking

   Back
   Home
   Call us
   Chat
   Email us
   Locations

Say hello to banking that puts you first.

   At Heritage, we’ve been committed to Australian communities since 1875.
   In a world where so much has changed, our mission to put people before
   profits, never has.

   Awards for Bank of the Year - Customer Service and Customer-Owned
   Institution of the Year
   Switch to Heritage

About this Rate

   (BUTTON)

   (BUTTON) Close this Window

Heritage Bank can help you with

   ""

Banking 

     * Accounts
     * Credit cards
     * International

   ""

Loans 

     * Home loans
     * Personal loans
     * Business loans

   ""

Insurance 

     * Car insurance
     * Home insurance
     * Landlord insurance

   ""

Business 

     * Accounts
     * Business loans
     * Business credit card

   ""

 Investment 

     * Term deposits
     * Financial planning
     * Superannuation

   ""

Calculators 

     * Home loan calculators
     * Personal loan calculators
     * Savings calculators

     Heritage Bank can help you with...
     * "" Accounts
     * "" Loans
     * "" Insurance
     * "" Credit cards
     * International  travel banking
     * "" Business Banking
     * "" Investment
     * "" Calculators and tools
     * Support Help with my account

   Personal loans

   Our personal loans are packed with features like low interest rates,
   unlimited extra repayments and free online redraw.

   Starlight Christmas Appeal
   Help fulfil Starlight’s mission of brightening the lives of sick kids
   and teens around Australia by donating a gift in the Heritage and
   People’s Choice National Christmas Appeal.

   Research tools
   Calculators Guides Interest rates
   Home loan repayment calculator
   Borrowing power calculator
   Personal loan repayment calculator
   The home loan application process
   Buying a car
   Switch to Heritage
   Home loan interest rates
   Account interest rates
   Compare credit cards

   These articles may help you
   How to choose the best savings account for you
   Saving throughout your lifetime is important, so making sure you have
   the right account is key.
   Ready for a sneak peek?
   Heritage and People's Choice have officially merged to create a new
   national mutual that offers a compelling alternative to the big banks,
   and we'd like to share our new brand with you.

   Contact us 24/7
   Our local Australian contact centre is waiting for you. Call us 24/7 on
   13 14 22. If overseas, call +617 4690 9000.
   Learn more
   Our locations
   Visit us in branch today. Our branch locator can help you find the
   closest Heritage Bank branch or ATM near you.
   Learn more
   Scam help
   Fight scammers with the help of Heritage. Report scams to us 24/7 on 13
   14 22 and keep up to date with our latest scam alerts.
   Learn more
   Sustainability
   We understand that the longevity of our society depends on the
   sustainability of our environment, communities and business practices.
   Learn more

Proudly supporting people's firsts.

   Helping our customers achieve their firsts in life and reach their
   financial dreams is at the heart of all we do. Whether it's your first
   car, home or business, we're proud to support your journey every step
   of the way.
   Awards for Bank of the Year - Customer Service and Customer-Owned
   Institution of the Year
   Learn about our member's firsts

   Top

Things you should know

   *

   This material has been prepared without taking into account your
   objectives, financial situation or needs ('your circumstances'). Before
   making a decision, consider whether any advice given is appropriate to
   your circumstances, and read the relevant terms and conditions and
   Product Disclosure Statement (available in-branch or at
   heritage.com.au). Lending criteria, limits, conditions, fees and
   charges apply. Target Market Determinations available at
   www.heritage.com.au/TMD. Information could change without notice.

   </text>
</page> §
<page="EN-24">
<text>   #alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate
   alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate
   alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate
   alternate alternate alternate

   Skip to main content

   Culture and Creativity home page Culture and Creativity home page
   enEnglish
   (BUTTON) Close

Select your language

Official EU languages

     * български
     * español
     * čeština
     * dansk
     * Deutsch
     * eesti
     * ελληνικά
     * English
     * français
     * Gaeilge
     * hrvatski
     * italiano

     * latviešu
     * lietuvių
     * magyar
     * Maltese
     * Nederlands
     * polski
     * português
     * română
     * slovenčina
     * slovenščina
     * suomi
     * svenska

   (BUTTON) Menu

Culture and Creativity

   (BUTTON) Close

   You are here:
    1. Culture and Creativity
    2. Cultural heritage

Cultural heritage

   Enlarge
   policies-culturalheritage-header

   Europe’s cultural heritage is a rich and diverse mosaic of cultural and
   creative expressions, an inheritance from previous generations of
   Europeans and a legacy for those to come. It includes natural, built
   and archaeological sites, museums, monuments, artworks, historic
   cities, literary, musical and audiovisual works, and the knowledge,
   practices and traditions of European citizens.

   While policy in this area is primarily the responsibility of Member
   States, regional and local authorities, the EU is committed to
   safeguarding and enhancing Europe's cultural heritage through a number
   of policies and programmes.

   Find detailed information about these policies and programmes in the
   following sections:

EU policy for cultural heritage

   The EU is committed to safeguarding and enhancing Europe's cultural
   heritage.
   Learn more

Funding opportunities for cultural heritage

   Several EU funding programmes support cultural heritage under the
   Multiannual Financial Framework.
   Find out more

Cultural heritage in other EU policies

   The European Framework for Action on Cultural Heritage proposes that
   cultural heritage should be addressed through many other EU policies
   beyond culture.
   Find out more

European Heritage Awards

   The European Heritage Awards put a spotlight on remarkable projects,
   initiatives and personalities in the field of cultural heritage.
   Find out more

European Heritage Days

   The European Heritage Days is among the most widely celebrated
   participatory cultural events in Europe.
   Find out more

European Heritage Label

   EHL sites have been selected for their symbolic value, their role in
   European history and the activities they offer.
   Find out more about EHL sites

Main actors on cultural heritage

   Cultural Heritage has a clear European dimension, which calls for joint
   action at European level.
   Learn more

   Want to give your feedback about this page?
   (BUTTON) Close this message
   Information message
   Please don’t ask questions or put personal details in this form.
   If you need to ask a question, please contact Europe direct.

   1. Did you find this page useful? (mandatory) Please choose option

   (*) Yes
   ( ) No

   What was useful about it? [- Please select one option -_]
   What was the main issue?
   [- Please select one option -__________________________________]
   Please explain your choice.

   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   Please explain your choice.

   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
     __________________________________________________________________

   2. Is there an issue with this page? (mandatory) Please choose option

   (*) Yes
   ( ) No

   What type of problem?
   [- Please select one option -__________________________________]
   Please describe the problem in the box below

   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
     __________________________________________________________________

   3. Help us improve further
   Please tell us more about the context.

   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   Send feedback

Thanks for your feedback

   We are happy to see that your experience was positive.
   Don't forget to share the pages you like with your friends and
   colleagues.
     __________________________________________________________________

   If you need to ask a question, please contact Europe direct.
   Please reply to all mandatory questions

EAC Footer

Culture in the EU

     * What the EU does for culture
     * EU support for the cultural and creative sectors
     * Creative Europe programme
     * Cultural heritage
     * European Prizes and Initiatives

Resources

     * COVID-19 response
     * Calls and funding opportunities
     * Funding sources for cultural heritage
     * Document library
     * Creative Europe project results

Contact points

     * Creative Europe Desks
     * European Heritage Label National Coordinators
     * Creative Europe on Facebook
     * Creative Europe on Instagram
     * Creative Europe on Twitter

Culture and Creativity

   This site is managed by the European Commission, Directorate-General
   for Education, Youth, Sport and Culture
     * Accessibility statement

About us

     * About the department and how to contact us

   European Commission logo

European Commission

     * Contact the European Commission
     * Follow the European Commission on social media
     * Resources for partners

     * Languages on our websites
     * Cookies
     * Privacy policy
     * Legal notice</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-25">
<text>   #alternate

   You may be trying to access this site from a secured browser on the
   server. Please enable scripts and reload this page.

   Turn on more accessible mode

   Turn off more accessible mode

   Skip Ribbon Commands

   Skip to main content

   Turn off Animations

   Turn on Animations

   Academic Resources
     * Academic Calendar
     * Academic Success
     * BlueStar
     * Campus Connect
     * DePaul Central
     * Desire2Learn (D2L)
     * BlueM@il (Email)
     * University Catalog
     * Library

   Campus Resources
     * Campus Security
     * Bookstore
     * Campus Maps
     * Events

   University Resources
     * Directory
     * Athletics
     * Employment
     * Sites A-Z
     * Technology Help Desk

   Information For
     * Alumni  Friends
     * Current Students
     * Faculty  Staff

   DePaul UniversityDePaul UniversityCollege of LawLaw
   DePaul Shortcuts
   ____________________
   ____________________

Center for Art, Museum  Cultural Heritage Law

     * Contact Us
     * About
     * Degree  Certificate Programs
          + Certificate in Arts and Museum Law
          + LLM Concentration
     * Our Work
     * Resources
     * Student Development

     * About
     * Academics
     * Admission  Aid
     * Faculty  Staff
     * Alumni
     * Career Services
     * Law Library
     * Student Life

   DePaul Shortcuts

   Academic Resources
     * Academic Calendar
     * Academic Success
     * BlueStar
     * Campus Connect
     * DePaul Central
     * Desire2Learn (D2L)
     * BlueM@il (Email)
     * University Catalog
     * Library

   Campus Resources
     * Campus Security
     * Bookstore
     * Campus Maps
     * Events

   University Resources
     * Directory
     * Athletics
     * Employment
     * Sites A-Z
     * Technology Help Desk

   Information For
     * Alumni  Friends
     * Current Students
     * Faculty  Staff

     * Apply Online
     * Request Info
     * Visit Campus

     * About
          + Dean's Welcome
          + Mission Statement
          + Diversity, Equity  Inclusion
          + Events  CLE
          + News
          + College of Law Recognition
          + History
          + Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures)
     * Academics
          + JD Program
          + LLM Programs
          + MLS Program
          + Certification  Non-Degree Programs
          + Academic Success Program (ASP)
          + Bar Passage Program
          + Experiential Learning
          + Study Abroad
          + Centers, Institutes  Initiatives
     * Admission  Aid
          + JD Admission
          + LLM Admission
          + MLS Admission
          + Tuition, Scholarships  Aid
          + Admitted Students
          + Visit
          + Brochures
     * Faculty  Staff
          + Full-time Faculty
          + Adjunct Faculty
          + Clinical Faculty
          + Legal Writing Faculty
          + Emeritus Faculty
          + Visiting Faculty  Fellows
          + Administration
          + Staff Directory
     * Alumni
          + Stay Connected
          + Giving
          + Events
          + News
          + Services
          + Council, Boards  Networks
          + Dialogue Archive
          + Contact Us
     * Career Services
          + Students
          + Alumni
          + Employers
          + Employment Data
          + Contact Us
     * Law Library
          + About
          + Services
          + Research
          + Technology
          + Hours
     * Student Life
          + Course Information  Registration
          + Academic Advising
          + Student Mentoring
          + Student Activities
          + Financial Resources
          + Wellness
          + Reporting Policies
          + University Resources
          + Contact Student Affairs

Center for Art, Museum  Cultural Heritage Law

     * Contact Us
     * About
     * Degree  Certificate Programs
          + Certificate in Arts and Museum Law
          + LLM Concentration
     * Our Work
     * Resources
     * Student Development

     * Apply Online
     * Request Info
     * Visit Campus

   College of Law  Academics  Centers, Institutes  Initiatives  Center
   for Art, Museum  Cultural Heritage Law  Degree  Certificate Programs
    LLM Concentration

LLM Concentration

   Main Content

   To earn t​he LLM in International Law, a student must complete 24
   semester hours of credit with a minimum cumulative grade point average
   (GPA) of 2.0. A summer term is counted as a semester for this purpose.
   Students who complete 24 credit hours with a GPA below the 2.0 GPA
   required to earn the degree will not be permitted to continue taking
   classes to improve their GPA. A student is automatically dismissed if
   he or she has a cumulative GPA below 2.0 for any three consecutive
   semesters.

   The LLM program may be completed on either a full- or part-time basis
   but it must be completed within five years. With the exception of
   students admitted to and enrolled in the joint JD/LLM program, credits
   earned as part of the JD program do not count toward the LLM degree. In
   addition, no credit is given for law courses taken before a student is
   admitted to and enrolled in the LLM program.

   As part of the International Law LLM degree program, DePaul's LLM
   concentration in international cultural heritage law provides extensive
   coursework and unique cross-curricular offerings to attorneys
   interested in expanding their training in this field.

   For additional information on our LLM program, please visit our degree
   requirements page along with a full list of required and elective
   courses for the International Cultural Heritage Law Concentration.​

   LLM Application Information

DePaul College of Law

Loop Campus

   25 E. Jackson Blvd.
   Chicago, IL 60604
   (312) 362-8701

About

   Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures)
   Contact  Location
   Map  Directions
   Hours

Directories

   Administration
   Faculty
   Staff

Resources

   Faculty/Staff Resource Site
   University Resources
   Plan an Event
   Marketing Communications Guidelines

   ApplyRequest InfoVisit
   2001-2018 DePaul University | Disclaimer | Contact Us | Emergency Plan
   | Consumer Information | IBHE Complaints | Privacy Statement |
   Editor Login
   LLM Concentration</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-26">
<text>   ____________________
     * Browse Law Schools
     * LLM Knowledge Base
          + LLM News
          + LLM Articles
          + LLM Basics
          + LLM Info Events
          + LLM Blogs
     * Law School Rankings
     * Top 10 Lists
     * LLM Scholarships
     * LLM Discussions
     * Application Tracker
     * Advanced LLM Search

     * Login

   ____________________ 
   Advanced LL.M. Program Search
   Login Register
     * Browse
       Law Schools

By Country
          + USA
          + UK / Ireland
          + Europe
          + Asia
          + Australia / New Zealand
          + Canada  Latin America
          + Africa / Middle East
       View All Countries

By Concentration
          + General LL.M. Programs
          + Alternative Dispute Resolution / Arbitration / Mediation
          + American Law / U.S. Law
          + Banking Law / Finance Law / Securities Law
          + Business Law / Commercial Law
          + Corporate Law / Company Law
          + Human Rights
       View All Concentrations
     * LLM Knowledge Base

All Resources
          + LLM News
          + LLM Articles
          + LLM Basics
          + LLM Info Events
          + LLM Blogs
     * Law School Rankings
     * Top 10 Lists
     * LLM Scholarships
     * LLM Discussions
     * My Schools

    1. Home
    2. LLM Discussions
    3. UK/Ireland
    4. Cultural heritage And art law

   [whatsapp.svg]

Cultural heritage And art law

   MsLo
   1  1

   Posted May 14, 2013 03:17
   0
   2764

   Hi everybody,
   I am interested in a career in art law and cultural property. Any
   suggestions? I've heard at LSE there is a course in cultural property
   and heritage law, unfortunately the deadline for the llm is now closed,
   but the same course is also available with the MSc in Law, Anthropology
   adn Society. What about QMUL?
   It's something very different, but I've heard there are also PhD and
   Research Masters programmes at the university of Glasgow (The
   Trafficking Culture project).
   What are your suggestions on this subject?
   Hi everybody,
   I am interested in a career in art law and cultural property. Any
   suggestions? I've heard at LSE there is a course in cultural property
   and heritage law, unfortunately the deadline for the llm is now closed,
   but the same course is also available with the MSc in Law, Anthropology
   adn Society. What about QMUL?
   It's something very different, but I've heard there are also PhD and
   Research Masters programmes at the university of Glasgow (The
   Trafficking Culture project).
   What are your suggestions on this subject?
   quote

   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   (BUTTON) Reply to Post
   Reply to Post Follow Thread

   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   (BUTTON) Save (BUTTON) Cancel

Related Law Schools

   The London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE)
   London, United Kingdom 837 Followers 956 Discussions
   Queen Mary University of London (QMUL)
   Full Profile
   London, United Kingdom 931 Followers 902 Discussions
   University of Glasgow - School of Law
   Glasgow, United Kingdom 172 Followers 134 Discussions

Featured Schools

   Católica Global School of Law Católica Global School of Law

   Law in European  Global Context, Int. Business Law
   Northwestern Pritzker School of Law Northwestern Pritzker School of Law

   Full-time and Part-time LLM; JD for Foreign Lawyers
   University of Birmingham University of Birmingham

   Advance your career potential with a 100% online postgraduate degree
   from the University of Birmingham

Schools mentioned

     * LSE
     * QMUL
     * Glasgow

   LL.M. Degrees Get Meaningful LL.M. Degrees Get Meaningful Read Article
   Popular Discussion Topics
   Tax LLM
   Application
   Bar Exam
   Coronavirus / COVID-19
   Scholarships / Financial Aid
   Visa Issues
   TOEFL / IELTS
   Letters of Recommendation
   Post-LLM Careers

Hot Discussions

     * LSE LLM 2024-25
       23 hours ago  7,450  69
     * Georgetown LLM 2024/2025 applicants
       Dec 16, 2023  8,433  61
     * Oxford 2024-2025 BCL/MSCs/MJUR/MPHIL/MLF
       Jan 02 02:29 PM  4,043  39
     * HAPPY NEW YEAR
       Dec 31 10:41 AM  2,130  24
     * University of Edinburgh (2024-25) admissions
       Jan 02 05:17 AM  636  15
     * UCLA LLM 2024-2025
       Jan 02 05:14 PM  1,263  13
     * Geneva Academy 2024-2025 Applications
       Dec 28 07:49 PM  387  7
     * Yale 2024/25
       21 hours ago  932  6

Topics

     * General Forum
     * USA
     * United Kingdom / Ireland
     * Europe
     * Asia
     * Australia / New Zealand
     * Canada
     * Latin America
     * Africa / Middle East
     * Distance Learning
     * TOEFL / IELTS
     * Scholarships / Funding
     * Bar Exam
     * JD
     * JSD / SJD

Recently Active Users

   UNIDROIT
   2  3
   balloonlaw
   28  16
   busyasabee...
   3  6
   anywayside...
   16  12
   ellewoodss...
   13  16
   andrewrey
   3  5
   charlie030...
   1  1
   DIDIDIDIDI...
   0  0

     * About us
     * Contact us
     * Advertise
     * Terms of Use
     * Cookie Policy
     * Privacy Policy

Information

     * Featured LLM Programs
     * LLM News
     * LLM Articles
     * MBA Programs
     * Online MBA Programs
     * Executive Courses

   Submit LLM Program

Search LLM Programs

   ____________________ 

   Go to Advanced Search

Subscribe to the LLM GUIDE Newsletter

   Receive the latest news and tips
   ____________________ (BUTTON) Subscribe Now

   © 2001–2024 Pritzwalks – LLM GUIDE – Master of Laws (LL.M.) Programs
   Worldwide

   Quantcast</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-27">
<text>     * Home
     * China
     * World
     * Business
     * Culture
     * Sports
     * Sci  Tech
     * In-depth
     * Entertainment
     * More∨
          + Photos
          + Video
          + Health
          + Latest
          + Xinhua New Media
          + Special Reports
          + BR Initiative
          + Biz China Weekly

   [banner.png]
   [menu.png]
   [close.png]

     * Home
     * Latest News
     * China
     * World
     * Business
     * Photos
     * Video
     * Culture  Edu
     * Sports
     * Sci  Tech
     * Health
     * Special Reports
     * Entertainment

     * Editions
     * Asia  Pacific
     * Europe
     * Africa
     * North America
     * 中文
     * Français
     * Русский
     * Deutsch
     * Español
     * عربي
     * 한국어
     * 日本語
     * Português

   [logo.jpg]
   [Editions______]

        ____________________________________________________________
   [sreach.jpg]-Submit

Spotlight: COVID-19 virus not created in lab, say French experts

   Source: Xinhua| 2020-04-21 14:26:34|Editor: huaxia

   IFRAME:

   Video PlayerClose

   PARIS, April 20 (Xinhua) -- French experts have refuted the claim by
   their colleague and Nobel Prize-winning scientist Luc Montagnier that
   the novel coronavirus causing the COVID-19 pandemic has been engineered
   and contains some genes of HIV-1.

   Montagnier last week told the French CNews channel: "There was
   manipulation around this virus ... the coronavirus of the bat, someone
   added sequences, in particular of HIV, the virus of AIDS ... It is not
   natural. It's the work of professionals, of molecular biologists ... A
   very meticulous work."

   The French virologist won the Nobel Prize in Medicine in 2008 for his
   discovery of the human immunodeficiency viruses (HIV).

   The hypothesis that a virus was created in a laboratory in Wuhan
   sounded "a conspiracy vision that does not relate to the real science,"
   said Jean-Francois Delfraissy, an immunologist and head of the
   scientific council that advises the French government on the COVID-19
   pandemic, when interviewed by French television BFM TV.

   "Everyone in the scientific community agrees that COVID-19 is a
   coronavirus. From time to time there are coronaviruses different from
   the others, as are SARS and MERS with a pathogenicity which has
   appeared," he added.

   Both Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) and Middle East
   Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) are caused by coronaviruses, and the
   COVID-19 virus is also known as SARS-CoV-2.

   "The world of viruses is a world in perpetual evolution," said
   Delfraissy, who is also president of France's National Consultative
   Ethics Committee for health and life sciences. "I rather think that
   COVID-19 is a coronavirus which had an animal reservoir and passed into
   humans for reasons that are not well known yet."

   For Olivier Schwartz, head of the virus and immunity department of
   France's Pasteur Institute, studies on the virus's genes show clearly
   that it was not a virus made by human beings in the laboratory.

   "Professor Montagnier spreads whimsical theories," he told the French
   weekly L'Obs, previously known as Le Nouvel Observateur.

   "Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes the COVID-19 disease, was not
   created in the laboratory. We see this by studying the genetic heritage
   of the virus, which has been sequenced by Chinese teams and then
   verified in many other laboratories, including the Pasteur Institute,
   which was the first in Europe to do so," said Schwartz.

   "This virus is clearly part of the coronavirus family tree. It is close
   to Sars-CoV-1, with which it has 80 percent homology," he explained.

   "Above all, the same virus is found in different animals, in particular
   the pangolin and the bat. And there, the percentage of similarities is
   greater than 95 percent. So, by drawing up the family tree of this
   virus, we know that it is derived from viruses that circulate in
   nature," he said.

   What Montagnier spreads is "fake news" that started in March with a
   manuscript posted by an Indian team on a website where scientists share
   ongoing analyses without waiting for expert verification, added
   Schwartz.

   "The Indian team ended up withdrawing their manuscript. My personal
   opinion is that these Indian researchers were in good faith at the
   outset in their desire to analyze the genome of the virus, and they
   realized their error later. But Professor Montagnier has taken up a
   whimsical theory," he said. Enditem
   KEY WORDS:
   YOU MAY LIKE

   EXPLORE XINHUANET
     * News
          + China
          + World
          + Business
          + Culture Edu
          + Sports
          + Sci Tech
          + Health
          + Entertainment
     * Regions
          + Asia  Pacific
          + Americas
          + Europe
          + Africa
          + Organizations
          + North America
     * Services
          + Investment
          + Doing Business
          + Work in China
          + Study in China
          + Visit in China
          + Live in China
          + Emergency
          + Weather
     * More
          + Photos
          + Video
          + In-depth
          + Special Reports
          + Corrections

   010020070750000000000000011100001389954131
   [1.gif?z=1_wdxid=010020070750000000000000011100001389954131]</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-28">
<text>   #Biodiversity Heritage Library Atom Feed Biodiversity Heritage Library
   » Feed Biodiversity Heritage Library » Comments Feed

   Biodiversity Heritage Library - Program news and collection highlights
   from BHL
     * Home
     * News
     * Featured Books
          + All Featured Books
          + Book of the Month Series
     * User Stories
     * Campaigns
          + Fossil Stories
          + Garden Stories
          + Monsters Are Real
          + Page Frights
          + Her Natural History
          + Earth Optimism 2020
     * Tech Blog
     * Visit BHL

   Home
   News
   Featured Books
       All Featured Books
       Book of the Month Series
   User Stories
   Campaigns
       Fossil Stories
       Garden Stories
       Monsters Are Real
       Page Frights
       Her Natural History
       Earth Optimism 2020
   Tech Blog
   Visit BHL
     * Home
     * News
     * Featured Books
          + All Featured Books
          + Book of the Month Series
     * User Stories
     * Campaigns
          + Fossil Stories
          + Garden Stories
          + Monsters Are Real
          + Page Frights
          + Her Natural History
          + Earth Optimism 2020
     * Tech Blog
     * Visit BHL

   ____________________

   Biodiversity Heritage Library - Program news and collection highlights
   from BHL

   Illuminating BHL’s Dark Data

   Citizen Scientists and AI Unlock Key Biodiversity Data in GBIF
   Illuminating BHL’s Dark Data

   Flora, Fauna, and Photography

   Five Years of Digitising Content for BHL in Aotearoa
   Flora, Fauna, and Photography

   Interlinking BHL Data

   in the Wikimedia Project Ecosystem
   Interlinking BHL Data

Welcome to the Biodiversity Heritage Library Blog

   BHL News, Blog Reel

BHL Bi-annual Newsletter (November 2023) Now Available!

   Read the full blog post

   Our latest bi-annual newsletter is now available! From flora and fauna
   in New Zealand to new Affiliates in Belgium and the United States,
   don’t miss the latest news from the BHL community.

   View our November 2023 Bi-annual Newsletter.
   Continue reading
   November 28, 2023byColleen Funkhouser
   BHL News, Blog Reel, Featured Books

Illuminating BHL’s Dark Data: Citizen Scientists and AI Unlock Key
Biodiversity Data in GBIF

   Read the full blog post

   In the face of climate change and environmental challenges,
   understanding and documenting Earth’s biodiversity is essential. The
   Global Biodiversity Information Facility (GBIF) serves as a global
   repository for biodiversity data, playing a pivotal role in this
   critical mission of safeguarding our planet’s biodiversity. Species
   occurrence data sourced from the Biodiversity Heritage Library (BHL)
   provides insights into species distributions, behaviors, and
   interactions much deeper into time, offering key species baseline data
   required to effectively address the climate crisis. Without accurate
   and comprehensive data in GBIF, our collective ability to track
   environmental changes and make informed decisions is severely hampered.

   As a GBIF participant node, BHL is committed to sharing biodiversity
   data openly, adhering to FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable,
   Reusable) and CARE (Collective Benefit, Authority to Control,
   Responsibility, Ethics) data principles, and collaborating with a
   global network of biodiversity organizations to bolster and build
   capacity to strengthen the biodiversity information infrastructure. To
   honor our commitments, technical staff from BHL are working to
   establish a scalable data pipeline of occurrence data currently trapped
   in archival field notes, journals, letters, correspondence, and other
   primary source materials. The journey has been an arduous one due to
   poor OCR (optical character recognition) data quality for BHL’s
   sub-corpus of handwritten materials.
   Continue reading
   November 9, 2023byJJ Dearborn, Joseph deVeer and Paul Flemons
   BHL News, Blog Reel

BHL Adds Dumbarton Oaks and Meise Botanic Garden as New Affiliates

   Read the full blog post

   The Biodiversity Heritage Library is pleased to welcome two new
   Affiliates in 2023: Dumbarton Oaks in Washington, DC, and Meise Botanic
   Garden in Meise, Belgium. The BHL Consortium now includes 19 Members
   and 23 Affiliates.
   Continue reading
   October 30, 2023byColleen Funkhouser
   Blog Reel, Featured Books

Flora, Fauna, and Photography: Five Years of Digitising Content for BHL in
Aotearoa

   Read the full blog post

   Auckland Museum joined the Biodiversity Heritage Library (BHL) in 2018
   and currently remains the only organisation in Aotearoa New Zealand
   contributing to the consortium. During my four years working as a
   technician and coordinator on the project, and with the help of a
   volunteer, Brianna Vincent, we have added over 25,000 pages, increasing
   our library of contributions from three to over 100 biodiversity
   literature items. These items span from 1790 to 2004, covering over 200
   years of biological knowledge, and range from field notebooks and
   sketches to identification guides, records and proceedings, educational
   textbooks, plant material, cyanotypes (blueprints), and hand-painted
   illustrations.
   Continue reading
   October 10, 2023byKelly Hall, Brodie Jean Hoare and Phoebe Shum
   BHL News, Blog Reel, Tech Updates

Interlinking BHL Data in the Wikimedia Project Ecosystem

   The planet is at a critical juncture, where urgent action is required
   to combat climate change, biodiversity loss, and secure a sustainable
   future for our planet. With the release of the recent BHL Wikimedia
   white paper entitled Unifying Biodiversity Knowledge to Support Life on
   a Sustainable Planet, the Biodiversity Heritage Library Secretariat
   hopes that an expanded data vision for the BHL community presents new
   opportunities to take bold steps forward into Wikimedia projects and
   the emergent semantic web. The white paper sheds light on BHL’s crucial
   role as a member of the biodiversity informatics community and reveals
   a series of key use cases and big data challenges that, if addressed,
   could be opportunities to enhance global biodiversity data
   infrastructure.
   Continue reading
   August 25, 2023byJJ Dearborn
   BHL News, Blog Reel

BHL Bi-annual Newsletter (June 2023) Now Available!

   Read the full blog post

   Our latest bi-annual newsletter is now available! From BHL Day 2023 in
   Paris to releasing the new Ukrainian Українська Collection, don’t miss
   the latest news from the BHL community.
   Continue reading
   June 2, 2023byColleen Funkhouser
   BHL News, Blog Reel

2023 BHL Annual Meeting – Together Again in Paris

   Read the full blog post

   Originally scheduled for 2020, the BHL Annual Meeting finally made it
   to Paris after two years of virtual meetings and a break to hold the
   2022 BHL Annual Meeting in conjunction with the Society for the
   Preservation of Natural History Collections (SPNHC) and the Natural
   Sciences Collections Society (NatSCA) meetings in Edinburgh, Scotland.

   The host for the 2023 meeting was the library of the Muséum national
   d’Histoire naturelle (MNHN), led by Alice Lemaire, Clément Oury, and
   Gildas Illien. The meeting took place 17-21 April 2023 and included BHL
   business meetings, tours of library and museum sites, and a BHL
   symposium titled “Fostering Data Driven Natural Science through Open
   Digital Libraries”. In total, the meeting gathered 38 attendees (both
   in-person and virtually) from 22 BHL partners from around the world.
   Continue reading
   May 24, 2023byMartin R. Kalfatovic
   Page 1 of 1661234»102030...Last »

Help Support BHL

   BHL’s existence depends on the financial support of its patrons. Help
   us keep this free resource alive!

   Donate Now

search

   Search for: ____________________

About BHL

   The Biodiversity Heritage Library (BHL) is the world’s largest open
   access digital library for biodiversity literature and archives.
   Headquartered at the Smithsonian Libraries and Archives in Washington,
   D.C., BHL operates as a worldwide consortium of natural history,
   botanical, research, and national libraries working together to
   digitize the natural history literature held in their collections and
   make it freely available for open access as part of a global
   “biodiversity community.”

Follow BHL

     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

Join Our Mailing List

   Sign up to receive the latest news, content highlights, and promotions.
   Subscribe Now

Subscribe to Blog via Email

   Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive
   notifications of new posts by email.

   Email Address ____________________

   (BUTTON) Subscribe

Subscribe to Blog Via RSS

   Subscribe to the blog RSS feed to stay up-to-date on all the latest BHL
   posts.
   Access RSS Feed

BHL on Twitter

   Tweets by @BioDivLibrary

   Inspiring Discovery through Free Access to Biodiversity Knowledge.

   The Biodiversity Heritage Library makes it easier than ever for you to
   access the information you need to study and explore life on Earth…for
   free, anytime, anywhere.

   60+ Million Pages of
   Biodiversity Literature Online.

   EXPLORE

   Tools and Services
   to Transform Research.

   EXPLORE

   300,000+
   Illustrations on Flickr.

   EXPLORE


   ABOUT | BLOG AUTHORS | HARMFUL CONTENT | PRIVACY | SITE MAP | TERMS OF
   USE

   Download Adobe Acrobat Reader</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-29">
<text>   #alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate
   alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate
   alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate
   alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate
   alternate alternate alternate Cambridge Dict

   Cambridge Dictionary

     * Dictionary
     * Translate
     * Grammar
     * Thesaurus
     * +Plus Cambridge Dictionary +Plus

     * Cambridge Dictionary +Plus
     * My profile
     * +Plus help
     * Log out

     *
     *
     *

   {{userName}}
     * Cambridge Dictionary +Plus
     * My profile
     * +Plus help
     * Log out

   Log in / Sign up
   English (UK)
   Search Search

   heritage____________
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON) English (BUTTON)
   {{word}} {{#beta}} Beta{{/beta}}
   {{#preferredDictionaries}} {{^selected}} {{name}} {{/selected}}
   {{/preferredDictionaries}}

                         Meaning of heritage in English

   heritage
   noun
   uk

   Your browser doesn't support HTML5 audio
   /ˈher.ɪ.tɪdʒ/ us

   Your browser doesn't support HTML5 audio
   /ˈher.ɪ.t̬ɪdʒ/
   Add to word list Add to word list
   C2 [ U ]
   features belonging to the culture of a particular society, such as
   traditions, languages, or buildings, that were created in the past and
   still have historical importance:
   cultural heritage These monuments are a vital part of the cultural
   heritage of South America.
   Part of our country's heritage has been destroyed.
   [ C or U ]
   a person's racial, ethnic, religious, or cultural background:
   I am an American of Persian heritage.
   They are proud of their Jewish and Palestinian heritages.
   Historical and government records can help you trace your heritage.
   See also
   dual heritage
   mixed heritage

   More examplesFewer examples
     * They consider the building to be an important part of region's
       heritage.
     * A fund has been set up to preserve the town's heritage.
     * Whatever your culture, whatever your heritage, whatever your
       background, we as a community will support you.
     * "What's your heritage?" "I'm part Scottish and part Chinese."

   SMART Vocabulary: related words and phrases
   History - general words
     * a page in/of history idiom
     * Age of Exploration
     * age of sail
     * alternative history
     * annal
     * antiquarian
     * antiquary
     * epigraphist
     * histographer
     * historic
     * historical
     * historically
     * historicity
     * historiographer
     * history
     * legacy
     * modern
     * revisionist
     * the Agrarian Revolution
     * unhistorical

   See more results »

   You can also find related words, phrases, and synonyms in the topics:
   Buildings in general
   Custom, tradition  conformity
   heritage
   adjective [ before noun ]
   uk/ˈher.ɪ.tɪdʒ/ us/ˈher.ɪ.t̬ɪdʒ/
   relating to buildings, places, works of art, etc. that are considered
   to have historical importance for a particular area or for all people:
   The city has been designated a world heritage site.
   She is an architect specializing in heritage conservation.
   (of fruit, plants, seeds, or animals) of a traditional or old-fashioned
   type that was popular in the past:
   The soup is made from heritage tomatoes, fennel, basil and a little
   garlic.
   She keeps heritage chickens and sells their eggs.
   Synonym
   heirloom

   More examplesFewer examples
     * This free Web-based service provides access to heritage collections
       of the nation's archives, galleries, libraries, and museums.
     * They promote the country's architectural legacy to attract heritage
       tourism.
     * The heritage industry has an annual turnover of 25 million pounds.
     * Heritage turkey meat is denser and more flavourful than regular
       turkey meat.
     * They sell seeds for many varieties of heritage fruit, flowers, and
       vegetables.

   SMART Vocabulary: related words and phrases
   History - general words
     * a page in/of history idiom
     * Age of Exploration
     * age of sail
     * alternative history
     * annal
     * antiquarian
     * antiquary
     * epigraphist
     * histographer
     * historic
     * historical
     * historically
     * historicity
     * historiographer
     * history
     * legacy
     * modern
     * revisionist
     * the Agrarian Revolution
     * unhistorical

   See more results »

   You can also find related words, phrases, and synonyms in the topics:
   Buildings in general
   Fruits  seeds  their parts
   Breeds  breeding
   (Definition of heritage from the Cambridge Advanced Learnerʼs
   Dictionary  Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press)

heritage | American Dictionary

   heritage
   noun [ U ]
   us

   Your browser doesn't support HTML5 audio
   /ˈher·ə·t̬ɪdʒ/
   Add to word list Add to word list
   features belonging to the culture of a particular society, such as
   traditions, languages, or buildings, which come from the past and are
   still important:
   The organization is devoted to preserving our cultural heritage.
   (Definition of heritage from the Cambridge Academic Content Dictionary
   © Cambridge University Press)

heritage | Business English

   heritage
   noun [ U ]
   uk

   Your browser doesn't support HTML5 audio
   /ˈherɪtɪdʒ/ us

   Your browser doesn't support HTML5 audio
   Add to word list Add to word list
   the history, traditions, practices, etc. of a particular country,
   society, or company that exist from the past and continue to be
   important:
   Their marketing strategy emphasizes the company's belief in its unique
   engineering heritage.
   (Definition of heritage from the Cambridge Business English Dictionary
   © Cambridge University Press)

Examples of heritage

   heritage
   This statement was really about the failure of the heritage industry to
   recognize local interests in the politics of (re)presentation.
   From the Cambridge English Corpus
   Reviews 583 signified several large-scale blocs of cultures and
   heritages that were differentiated by their position along the spectrum
   of barbarity and modernity.
   From the Cambridge English Corpus
   Perhaps there are ways of reenchanting the world without surrendering
   our scientific heritage?
   From the Cambridge English Corpus
   One's own personal heritage of possibilities is what individuates one
   as a person.
   From the Cambridge English Corpus
   The indigenous heritage industry reacted to the repeated local
   resistance by withdrawing their commitment to the development of the
   site.
   From the Cambridge English Corpus
   His main charge concerns their alleged collusion with non-academic
   interests to effect acceptable heritage results, politically,
   economically, (re)presentationally.
   From the Cambridge English Corpus
   Archaeologists involved in the local heritage industry might be better
   equipped to deal with the sensitivity of minority and localist ideas of
   heritage than outsiders.
   From the Cambridge English Corpus
   Initially, responses to them exhibit a combination of fascination with
   the exotic and a markedly undemocratic appreciation of their
   aristocratic heritage.
   From the Cambridge English Corpus
   She has since changed the spelling to de-emphasize her mixed ethnic
   heritage when she goes to auditions.
   From the Cambridge English Corpus
   Similarly, the split might be attributed to different ethnic heritage.
   From the Cambridge English Corpus
   Once again, it is tempting to interpret the outcome as a by-product of
   the historical heritage.
   From the Cambridge English Corpus
   The country's rich intellectual heritage is dispersed among hundreds of
   libraries and archives across the nation.
   From the Cambridge English Corpus
   It was solely my intention to call attention to the complex relation
   between tourism and heritage conservation and interpretation.
   From the Cambridge English Corpus
   The interrelation between identity formation, heritage conservation and
   interpretation and tourism has been an issue of central importance in
   the present argument.
   From the Cambridge English Corpus
   Again it is reflected in a change of vocabulary from cultural resource
   management to heritage management, or simply from conservation to
   heritage.
   From the Cambridge English Corpus
   These examples are from corpora and from sources on the web. Any
   opinions in the examples do not represent the opinion of the Cambridge
   Dictionary editors or of Cambridge University Press or its licensors.

Collocations with heritage

heritage

   These are words often used in combination with heritage.

   Click on a collocation to see more examples of it.
   agricultural heritage
   We should consider the agricultural heritage as well as the industrial
   heritage when we think of possible grants and work to be done.
   From the
   Hansard archive
   (BUTTON)
   Example from the Hansard archive. Contains Parliamentary information
   licensed under the Open Parliament Licence v3.0

   archaeological heritage
   It is in this context that the archaeological heritage is also being
   lost.
   From the Cambridge English Corpus
   architectural heritage
   The visitor is immediately struck both by the city's commanding
   geographical position and by the richness of its architectural
   heritage.
   From the Cambridge English Corpus
   These examples are from corpora and from sources on the web. Any
   opinions in the examples do not represent the opinion of the Cambridge
   Dictionary editors or of Cambridge University Press or its licensors.
   See all collocations with heritage
   What is the pronunciation of heritage?

   C2

Translations of heritage

   in Chinese (Traditional)
   遺產（指流傳下來的具有歷史意義的傳統、語言、建築等）…
   See more
   in Chinese (Simplified)
   遗产（指流传下来的具有历史意义的传统、语言、建筑等）…
   See more
   in Spanish
   patrimonio, herencia…
   See more
   in Portuguese
   patrimônio…
   See more

   in more languages
   in Turkish
   in French
   in Dutch
   in Czech
   in Danish
   in Indonesian
   in Thai
   in Vietnamese
   in Polish
   in Malay
   in German
   in Norwegian
   in Ukrainian
   in Russian
   miras, kalıtım, kalıt…
   See more
   patrimoine…
   See more
   erfenis…
   See more
   dědictví…
   See more
   kulturarv…
   See more
   warisan…
   See more
   มรดก…
   See more
   di sản…
   See more
   dziedzictwo, spuścizna…
   See more
   warisan…
   See more
   das Erbe…
   See more
   kulturarv, folkeeie…
   See more
   спадщина, спадок…
   See more
   наследие…
   See more
   Need a translator?

   Get a quick, free translation!
   Translator tool



Browse

   hereupon
   herewith
   heritability
   heritable
   heritage
   heritage breed
   heritage industry
   heritage language
   heritage-listed building

   {{#randomImageQuizHook.isQuiz}}
   Test your vocabulary with our fun image quizzes
   {{randomImageQuizHook.quizId}}
   Try a quiz now
   {{/randomImageQuizHook.isQuiz}} {{^randomImageQuizHook.isQuiz}}
   {{randomImageQuizHook.quizId}}
   {{/randomImageQuizHook.isQuiz}}

More meanings of heritage

   All
     * dual heritage
     * heritage breed
     * mixed heritage
     * heritage industry
     * heritage language
     * World Heritage Site
     * heritage-listed building

   See all meanings

   Word of the Day

   family-friendly
   UK

   Your browser doesn't support HTML5 audio
   US

   Your browser doesn't support HTML5 audio

   family-friendly practices at work are intended to make sure employees
   with children are able to continue with their job without having
   additional problems because they have children
   About this
   Juddering, quivering and wobbling: more verbs to describe movement

   Blog

   Juddering, quivering and wobbling: more verbs to describe movement
   January 03, 2024
   Read More
   pbroken rung

   New Words

   broken rung
   January 01, 2024
   More new words

   has been added to list
   To top
   Contents
   EnglishAmericanBusinessExamplesCollocationsTranslations

   [tr?id=3409493515968429ev=PageView noscript=1]

   © Cambridge University Press  Assessment 2024
   Learn
   Learn Learn New Words Help In Print Word of the Year 2021 Word of the
   Year 2022 Word of the Year 2023
   Develop
   Develop Develop Dictionary API Double-Click Lookup Search Widgets
   License Data
   About
   About About Accessibility Cambridge English Cambridge University Press
    Assessment Consent Management Cookies and Privacy Corpus Terms of Use

   © Cambridge University Press  Assessment 2024

   {{#displayLoginPopup}}
   Cambridge Dictionary +Plus

Learn more with +Plus

   Sign up for free and get access to exclusive content:
   Free word lists and quizzes from Cambridge
   Tools to create your own word lists and quizzes
   Word lists shared by our community of dictionary fans
   Sign up now or Log in
   Cambridge Dictionary +Plus

Learn more with +Plus

   Create word lists and quizzes for free
   Sign up now or Log in
   {{/displayLoginPopup}} {{#displayClassicSurvey}}
   {{/displayClassicSurvey}}

   Cambridge Dictionary
     * Cambridge Dictionary +Plus
     * My profile
     * +Plus help
     * Log out

   Cambridge Dictionary
   Dictionary
   Definitions
   Clear explanations of natural written and spoken English
   English
   Learner’s Dictionary
   Essential British English
   Essential American English
   Translations
   Click on the arrows to change the translation direction.
   Bilingual Dictionaries
   English–Chinese (Simplified) Chinese (Simplified)–English
   English–Chinese (Traditional) Chinese (Traditional)–English
   English–Dutch Dutch–English
   English–French French–English
   English–German German–English
   English–Indonesian Indonesian–English
   English–Italian Italian–English
   English–Japanese Japanese–English
   English–Norwegian Norwegian–English
   English–Polish Polish–English
   English–Portuguese Portuguese–English
   English–Spanish Spanish–English
   English–Swedish Swedish–English
   Semi-bilingual Dictionaries
   English–Arabic
   English–Bengali
   English–Catalan
   English–Czech
   English–Danish
   English–Gujarati
   English–Hindi
   English–Korean
   English–Malay
   English–Marathi
   English–Russian
   English–Tamil
   English–Telugu
   English–Thai
   English–Turkish
   English–Ukrainian
   English–Urdu
   English–Vietnamese
   Translate
   Grammar
   Thesaurus
   Pronunciation
   Cambridge Dictionary +Plus

   {{userName}}
     * Cambridge Dictionary +Plus
     * My profile
     * +Plus help
     * Log out

   Log in / Sign up
   English (UK)   Change
   English (UK) English (US) Español Русский Português Deutsch Français
   Italiano 中文 (简体) 正體中文 (繁體) Polski 한국어 Türkçe 日本語 Tiếng Việt Nederlands
   Dansk Norsk हिंदी বাঙ্গালি मराठी ગુજરાતી தமிழ் తెలుగు
   Follow us

   Choose a dictionary
     * Recent and Recommended
       {{#preferredDictionaries}} {{name}} {{/preferredDictionaries}}
     * Definitions
       Clear explanations of natural written and spoken English
       English Learner’s Dictionary Essential British English Essential
       American English
     * Grammar and thesaurus
       Usage explanations of natural written and spoken English
       Grammar Thesaurus
     * Pronunciation
       British and American pronunciations with audio
       English Pronunciation
     * Translation
       Click on the arrows to change the translation direction.
       Bilingual Dictionaries
          + English–Chinese (Simplified) Chinese (Simplified)–English
          + English–Chinese (Traditional) Chinese (Traditional)–English
          + English–Dutch Dutch–English
          + English–French French–English
          + English–German German–English
          + English–Indonesian Indonesian–English
          + English–Italian Italian–English
          + English–Japanese Japanese–English
          + English–Norwegian Norwegian–English
          + English–Polish Polish–English
          + English–Portuguese Portuguese–English
          + English–Spanish Spanish–English
          + English–Swedish Swedish–English
       Semi-bilingual Dictionaries
       English–Arabic English–Bengali English–Catalan English–Czech
       English–Danish English–Gujarati English–Hindi English–Korean
       English–Malay English–Marathi English–Russian English–Tamil
       English–Telugu English–Thai English–Turkish English–Ukrainian
       English–Urdu English–Vietnamese
     * Dictionary +Plus
       Word Lists

   Choose your language
   English (UK)
   English (US) Español Русский Português Deutsch Français Italiano 中文
   (简体) 正體中文 (繁體) Polski 한국어 Türkçe 日本語 Tiếng Việt Nederlands Dansk Norsk
   हिंदी বাঙ্গালি मराठी ગુજરાતી தமிழ் తెలుగు

   Contents
     * English
       Noun
       Adjective
     * American
       Noun
     * Business
       Noun
     * Examples
     * Collocations

     * Translations
     * Grammar
     * All translations

   My word lists

   Add heritage to one of your lists below, or create a new one.
   (BUTTON)
   ____________________
   {{#verifyErrors}}

   {{message}}
   {{/verifyErrors}} {{^verifyErrors}} {{#message}}

   {{message}}
   {{/message}} {{^message}}

   Something went wrong.
   {{/message}} {{/verifyErrors}}
   More
   {{name}}
   Go to your word lists
   {{#verifyErrors}}

   {{message}}
   {{/verifyErrors}} {{^verifyErrors}} {{#message}}

   {{message}}
   {{/message}} {{^message}}

   Something went wrong.
   {{/message}} {{/verifyErrors}}

   Tell us about this example sentence:
   (*) The word in the example sentence does not match the entry word.
   ( ) The sentence contains offensive content.
   (BUTTON) Cancel (BUTTON) Submit
   Thanks! Your feedback will be reviewed.
   {{#verifyErrors}}

   {{message}}
   {{/verifyErrors}} {{^verifyErrors}} {{#message}}

   {{message}}
   {{/message}} {{^message}}

   There was a problem sending your report.
   {{/message}} {{/verifyErrors}}
   (*) The word in the example sentence does not match the entry word.
   ( ) The sentence contains offensive content.
   (BUTTON) Cancel (BUTTON) Submit
   Thanks! Your feedback will be reviewed.
   {{#verifyErrors}}

   {{message}}
   {{/verifyErrors}} {{^verifyErrors}} {{#message}}

   {{message}}
   {{/message}} {{^message}}

   There was a problem sending your report.
   {{/message}} {{/verifyErrors}}</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-3">
<text>   #The Mountain Times » Feed The Mountain Times » Comments Feed alternate
   alternate alternate

   Skip to content

     * About
     * Classifieds
     * Advertise

   Mountain Times

   The Mountain Times

   (BUTTON) Primary Menu
     * Home
     * News
          + Local News
          + Tax incremental financing (TIF)
          + My Side of the Mountain
          + Arts, Dining  Entertainment
          + State News
     * Events
          + Music Scene
          + AUDI FIS Ski World Cup
     * Horoscopes
     * Opinion
          + OpEds
          + Letters
          + Column
     * Contact Us
     * 2023 E-Editions
          + 2022 E-Editions
          + 2021 E-Editions
          + 2020 E-Editions
          + 2019 E-Edition
          + 2018 E-Editions
          + 2017 E-Editions
          + 2016 E-Editions
          + 2015 E-Editions
     * About
     * Classifieds
     * Advertise

   News Briefs
   October 25, 2023

Heritage Family Credit Union names Christopher Gomez new president/CEO

             Christopher Gomez


   The Board of Directors for Heritage Family Credit Union announced the
   appointment of Christopher Gomez as the credit union’s next
   President/CEO on Tuesday, Oct. 17. Gomez will take over the reins from
   the current retiring president/CEO Matthew Levandowski, on Monday, Nov.
   6, 2023.

   “The Board of Directors is very excited to welcome Chris to Heritage
   Family Credit Union as our next President/CEO. Chris stood out amongst
   a very strong set of candidates and has demonstrated a deeply held
   passion for the credit union movement. He brings more than 20 years of
   industry experience and a wealth of knowledge to our organization.
   Chris is committed to providing world class service and value to our
   members, and we look forward to the continued success and growth of
   Heritage Family under his leadership,” said Kevin Loso, Chairperson of
   the Board of Directors.”

   Gomez will be moving to the Rutland community with his wife and
   daughter from upstate New York, where he most recently served as the
   chief experience officer for Mid-Hudson Valley Federal Credit Union.
   Beyond his professional responsibilities, Gomez served his community as
   an active volunteer and served on several non-profit boards in
   leadership positions.

   “I am extremely honored and excited to have the opportunity to lead the
   continued growth and prosperity of one of Vermont’s premier financial
   institutions. I look forward to working with tahe board, leadership
   team, and staff on delivering on our mission and providing valuable
   service to the members of Heritage Family Credit Union,” said Gomez.

   The Board engaged Shanley Search Partners to conduct a nationwide
   search for candidates.

   Gomez was chosen from over 50 qualified applicants for the role. He
   takes over the leadership of the credit union from outgoing
   President/CEO Levandowski who had a career spanning 30 years at
   Heritage Family Credit Union, serving as the leader for the last 10.
   Levandowski served under Ron Hance who held the position for over four
   decades.

   Heritage Family Credit Union was formed in 1956 as the Ludlow Rutland
   General Electric Employees’ Credit Union and has $740 million in assets
   serving 50,000 members in the southern half of Vermont, parts of New
   Hampshire, New York and Massachusetts.
   [PrestigeJPEGBanner.jpg]

Posted in

   News Briefs
   Tagged Christopher Gomez, Heritage Family Credit Union

Related Posts

     *

Suspect arrested in shooting of 3 Palestinian A...
       Nov 29, 2023
     *

Governor Scott appoints five Superior Court judges
       Nov 22, 2023
     *

White River Junction’s ECFiber bonds gain S#03...
       Nov 15, 2023

Post navigation

   Dumb and Dumber, the left’s two worst ideas
    Woodstock Inn  Resort names new president

Search

   Search for: ____________________ Search

   Donate with PayPal button

   [BlockRRMCNEW.jpg]
   [SIXP_84937_Mountain_Times_Real_Estate_Guide_Ads_FA_300x250.jpg]
   [Casellablockad.jpg]
   [BlockRRMCMountain-Times_Website-Banner_Eisemann_300x250.jpg]
   [MagicStoneBlock.jpg]

Recent Posts

     * Hartland names new town manager January 3, 2024
     * Mountain Times – Volume 51, Number 49 – Dec. 13-19, 2023 January 3,
       2024
     * Mountain Times – Volume 51, Number 50 – Dec. 20-26, 2023 January 3,
       2024
     * Mountain Times – Volume 52, Number 1- Jan. 3-9, 2024 January 3,
       2024
     * Skiing with disabilities January 3, 2024
     * Living the Dream: Thriving in survival mode January 3, 2024
     * The Movie Diary: Not fast enough January 3, 2024
     * The Outside Story: Thundersnow: A rare type of winter storm
       January 3, 2024
     * Mountain Meditation: Gratitude and goodwill grow blessings in life
       January 3, 2024
     * Poetry Is Power: Sparkling icicles, a haiku January 3, 2024

Mountain Times Newsletter

   Sign up below to receive the weekly newsletter, which also includes top
   trending stories and what all the locals are talking about!

   IFRAME: https://app.mailjet.com/widget/iframe/6wJ0/HZy

Navigation

     * Home
     * News
          + Local News
          + Tax incremental financing (TIF)
          + My Side of the Mountain
          + Arts, Dining  Entertainment
          + State News
     * Events
          + Music Scene
     * Horoscopes
     * Opinion
          + OpEds
          + Letters
          + Column
     * Contact Us
          + Advertise
     * e-Editon
          + 2023 E-Editions
          + 2022 E-Editions
          + 2021 E-Editions
          + 2020 E-Editions
          + 2019 E-Edition
          + 2018 E-Editions
          + 2017 E-Editions
          + 2016 E-Editions
          + 2015 E-Editions

About

   The Mountain Times is, and has always been, a family-owned independent
   newspaper located on Route 4. Founded in 1971, the paper has gone
   through many transitions, now expanding into web and mobile platforms
   in addition to its weekly newspaper and semi-annual magazines. – See
   more at: Here

Information

   Phone  Fax:
   Telephone: (802) 422-2399
   Fax: (802) 422-2395

   Location:

   5465 U.S. 4
   Killington, VT 05751

   Mailing address
   PO Box 183 (Postal address)
   Killington, VT 05751

   Hours:
   Monday – Friday: 10 a.m. – 3 p.m.
   Saturday – Sunday: Closed

   © 2024 The Mountain Times, Outer Limits Publishing LLC | All rights
   reserved.

   Website by Group6 Interactive</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-30">
<text>   #alternate alternate alternate alternate

   Interpol Logo Interpol Logo

   (BUTTON)
     * Who we are
          +
               o What is INTERPOL?
               o INTERPOL – Five actions for a safer world
          +
               o General Secretariat
               o Secretary General
               o Official visitors to the General Secretariat
               o Jürgen Stock biography
               o Values and ethics
          +
               o Governance
               o General Assembly
               o Executive Committee
               o President
          +
               o Member countries
               o National Central Bureaus (NCBs)
          +
               o Strategy
               o Strategic Framework 2022-2025
               o Global Policing Goals
          +
               o Legal framework
               o Data protection
               o Legal documents
               o Cooperation agreements
               o Membership of INTERPOL
               o Name and logo
               o Information, communications and technology (ICT) law
                 projects
          +
               o Our funding
          +
               o INTERPOL 100
               o 1923 – how our history started
               o Key dates
               o INTERPOL then and now
          +
               o Commission for the Control of INTERPOL’s Files
               o About the CCF
               o How to submit a request
               o CCF sessions and decisions
               o Frequently Asked Questions
     * Crimes
          +
               o Corruption
          +
               o Counterfeit currency and documents
          +
               o Crimes against children
          +
               o Cultural heritage crime
          +
               o Cybercrime
          +
               o Drug Trafficking
          +
               o Environmental crime
          +
               o Financial crime
          +
               o Firearms trafficking
          +
               o Human trafficking and migrant smuggling
          +
               o Illicit goods
          +
               o Maritime crime
          +
               o Organized crime
          +
               o Terrorism
          +
               o Vehicle crime
          +
               o War crimes
     * How we work
          +
               o COVID-19
          +
               o Border management
          +
               o Capacity building
          +
               o Command and coordination centre
          +
               o Criminal intelligence analysis
          +
               o Databases
          +
               o Forensics
          +
               o Fugitive investigative support
          +
               o I-CORE: our vision for change
          +
               o Innovation
          +
               o INTERPOL response teams
          +
               o Major event security
          +
               o Notices
          +
               o The Dialogue
     * Our partners
          +
               o Government partners
          +
               o International organization partners
               o INTERPOL and the European Union
               o INTERPOL and the African Union
               o INTERPOL and the United Nations
          +
               o Our partnerships with regional policing bodies
               o Support for AFRIPOL
          +
               o INTERPOL Foundation for a Safer World
          +
               o Private sector partners
          +
               o General Assembly Exhibition
          +
               o How to become a partner
     * What you can do
          +
               o Stay safe
               o Beware of scams using INTERPOL’s name
          +
               o Help us find
          +
               o If you need help
          +
               o Honouring the world's police
          +
               o Work for us
     * News
     * Wanted persons

   en
     * en
     * fr
     * es
     * ar

What are you searching for ?

   ____________________ (BUTTON) icon-loupe

Cultural heritage crime

   Home
   
   Crimes
   
   Cultural heritage crime
   Print this page Facebook INTERPOL Twitter INTERPOL Scroll to top
   [SELECT A PAGE___________________________________________________]
     *
          + The issues – cultural property
     *
          + How we fight cultural heritage crime
     *
          + ID-Art mobile app
          +
               o ID-Art: success stories
               o Privacy Policy - ID-Art Application
               o Cookie Policy - ID-Art Application
               o ID Art application - Terms of Use
     *
          + Stolen Works of Art Database
          +
               o Application form to access INTERPOL’s Works of Art
                 Database
     *
          + Object ID
     *
          + Partnerships
     *
          + Protecting cultural heritage

   Cultural property is part of our heritage, history and identity. It
   needs protecting from criminals.

   Trafficking in cultural property is a low-risk, high-profit business
   for criminals with links to organized crime.

   From stolen artwork to historical artefacts, this crime can affect all
   countries, either as origin, transit or destinations.

Activities

   CrimesThe issues – cultural property

   There is a lucrative black market in cultural property with strong
   links to organized crime.
   CrimesHow we fight cultural heritage crime

   Our specialized officers share their expertise and passion for
   protecting cultural heritage.
   CrimesID-Art mobile app

   Capture the art, capture the criminals
   CrimesStolen Works of Art Database

   The Stolen Works of Art database is our main tool to tackle the traffic
   in cultural property.
   What you can doProtecting cultural heritage

   Individuals and countries can all do more to protect cultural heritage.
   CrimesObject ID
   Our partnersPartnerships

   Combined action with partners strengthens our efforts to protect
   cultural heritage.

Related news

International art trafficking operation leads to 60 arrests and over 11,000
objects recovered

   4 May 2023

ID-Art, INTERPOL’s first App, turns one year old

   12 July 2022

Cultural heritage crime: INTERPOL’s ID-Art app in the news

   14 April 2022

52 arrests in operation across 28 countries targeting trafficking in cultural
goods

   9 March 2022

Cultural property crime thrives throughout pandemic says new INTERPOL survey

   18 October 2021

   Interpol Logo
   Connect with us
     * Contact INTERPOL
     * Careers
     * Procurement
     * About the CCF

   Resources
     * News and Events
     * Information for journalists
     * Multimedia
     * Documents

   Policies
     * Cookie policy
     * Privacy policy
     * Terms of use
     * Name and logo

   Social media
     * Facebook INTERPOL
     * Twitter INTERPOL
     * Youtube INTERPOL
     * Instagram INTERPOL
     * LinkedIn INTERPOL

   Site Map INTERPOL 2024. All Rights Reserved.

   Our site uses cookies to ensure technical functionality, gather
   statistics and enable sharing on social media platforms.
   OK Tell me more</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-31">
<text>   [header-logo.png]
   (BUTTON) NAVIGATION
     * Home
     * About PNHP
          + About PNHP
          + How We Work
          + Mission
          + Our Staff
          + Contact Us
     * News and Events
     * Resources
          + Environmental Review Lists
          + Species  Natural Features
          + Plant Communities
          + Rank and Status Definitions
          + PNHP Projects Story Map
          + Vernal Pools
          + Aquatic Communities
          + Publications
          + Links
     * Tools
          + PA Community Prediction Tool
          + County Natural Heritage Inventories
          + Conservation Opportunity Area Tool
          + Plant Factsheets
          + iMapInvasives
          + Climate Change Vulnerability Index
          + Natural Heritage Area Story Maps
          + Submit and Request Data
     * Conservation Explorer
     *  Search

   View the Pennsylvania Natural Heritage Program's 2022 Annual Report.
   Visit our Story Map to discover plant and wildlife research projects
   PNHP is working on across Pennsylvania.
   Conservation Explorer provides access to conservation information,
   leading to better planning and reduced project impacts.
   PNHP inventories and maintains a list of plant and wildlife species,
   communities and rare features of conservation concern.
   Find instructions and forms for submitting data to or requesting data
   from PNHP.
   Learn about the appearance, habitat, distribution, and conservation
   management of important plant species in Pennsylvania.
   Read the Fall 2023 issue of Wild Heritage News.

Welcome

   The Pennsylvania Natural Heritage Program (PNHP) is a partnership
   between the Pennsylvania Department of Conservation and Natural
   Resources (DCNR), the Pennsylvania Fish and Boat Commission (PFBC), the
   Pennsylvania Game Commission (PGC), and the Western Pennsylvania
   Conservancy (WPC) in cooperation with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife
   Service. PNHP is a member of NatureServe, an international network of
   natural heritage programs that gather and provide information on the
   location and status of important ecological resources (plants,
   vertebrates, invertebrates, ecological communities and geologic
   features). Our purpose is to provide current, reliable, objective
   ecological data and analysis to help guide conservation work and
   land-use planning.
   ...

About PNHP

   Learn about our mission, how we work, and how to contact our staff.
   ...

Species and Natural Features

   Find species and features subject to environmental review by PNHP
   jurisdictional partner agencies. View other species of interest, rare
   natural communities, or geologic features.
   ...

Ecological Communities

   Find tools to identify terrestrial, palustrine and aquatic ecological
   communities found in Pennsylvania and learn about their importance.
   ...

Conservation Tools

   Explore interactive maps and conservation tools including the County
   Natural Heritage Inventory, Conservation Opportunity Area tool, Plant
   Factsheets, iMap Invasives, Conservation Case Studies and more.
   ...

Research and Initiatives

   Access PNHP scientific publications and explore projects our staff are
   working on to address climate change, protect vernal pools, and study
   plants and wildlife across Pennsylvania.
   ...

Conservation Explorer

   Visit the Conservation Explorer for conservation planning purposes and
   Pennsylvania Natural Diversity Inventory (PNDI) environmental review.


   PNHP is a partnership between The Department of Conservation and
   Natural Resources,
   the Pennsylvania Game Commission, the Pennsylvania Fish and Boat
   Commission,
   and the Western Pennsylvania Conservancy.
   DCNR Home Page
   PA Game Commission Home Page
   PA Fish and Boat Commission Home Page
   Western PA Conservancy Home Page
   DCNR Home Page PNHP | Forestry Home | Contact Us | Search This Site
   © 2019 PA Department of Conservation and Natural Resources DCNR Home
   Page</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-32">
<text>    #alternate alternate alternate

                                   Navigation

     * Skip to Content

   Council of Europe
   WWW.COE.INT
   Human Rights Democracy Rule of Law
   About us
   Council of Europe at a glance
   The Council of Europe: key facts
   Achievements and History
   Jobs and Traineeships
   Home
   Human Rights
   Democracy
   Rule of Law
   Administrative entities
   Secretary General
   Deputy Secretary General
   Chairmanship
   Committee of Ministers
   Parliamentary Assembly
   Congress of Local and Regional Authorities
   European Court of Human Rights
   Commissioner for Human Rights
   Conference of INGOs
   Monitoring bodies
   Private Office
   Treaty Office
   46 Member States
   Theme files
   Newsroom
   Events
   Bookshop
   Online resources
   Contact
   Intranet
   English
   Choose language

   English
   Français
   Connect
   Search
   Council of Europe at a glance
   The Council of Europe: key facts
   Achievements and History
   Jobs and Traineeships
   Home
   Human Rights
   Democracy
   Rule of Law
   Administrative entities
   Secretary General
   Deputy Secretary General
   Chairmanship
   Committee of Ministers
   Parliamentary Assembly
   Congress of Local and Regional Authorities
   European Court of Human Rights
   Commissioner for Human Rights
   Conference of INGOs
   Monitoring bodies
   Private Office
   Treaty Office
   46 Member States
   Theme files
   Newsroom
   Events
   Bookshop
   Online resources
   Contact
   Intranet
   [subsite-en.svg]
   [logo-coe.svg] Avenue de l'Europe
   F-67075 Strasbourg Cedex
   Tel. +33 (0)3 88 41 20 00
   www.coe.int

   Culture and Cultural Heritage

     * Home
     * Newsroom
     * Culture
          + Back
          + Access to culture during Covid 19
          + Compendium
          + Cultural policy reviews
          + Cultural routes
          + Culture and Digitisation
          + Free to Create – Create To be Free
          + Eurimages
          + Indicators Culture and Democracy
          + Manifesto on the Freedom of Expression of Arts and Culture in
            the Digital Era
          + Past activities
     * Cultural Heritage
          + Back
          + Access to archives
          + Cultural Property Protection
          + European Heritage Days
          + Faro Convention Action Plan
          + HEREIN: Heritage Network
          + Strategy 21
          + Past activities
     * Standards
     * Resources
          + Back
          + Reference texts
          + Publications
          + Videos
     * CDCPP

     *

   You are here:
    1. Democracy and Human Dignity

     Culture and Cultural Heritage

     Home

   [icon-twitter-rounded.png] [icon-facebook-rounded.png]
   [icon-linkedin-rounded.png] [icon-mail-rounded.png]

   We strive towards a Europe where the diversity of cultures, the arts,
   and cultural heritage are essential to the development of a genuine
   openness of mind and basic rights, and where open and interactive
   processes and practices of culture that combine to help us deal with
   the complexities of living with ourselves and one another.

     * 12th plenary session of the Steering Committee for Culture,
       Heritage and Landscape (CDCPP)
          + Twitter
          + Facebook
          + LinkedIn
          + Email
       15 nov. 2023

12th plenary session of the Steering Committee for Culture, Heritage and
Landscape (CDCPP)
       strasbourg 9 november 2023
       The CDCPP will hold its 12th plenary session in Strasbourg on 15-17
       November 2023. Members of the...
     * Meeting of the CULTNET Network of experts in the protection of
       historical heritage
          + Twitter
          + Facebook
          + LinkedIn
          + Email
       9 nov. 2023

Meeting of the CULTNET Network of experts in the protection of historical
heritage
       Madrid, Spain 24-26 October 2023
       The Council of Europe participated in the meeting of the CULTNET
       Network of experts in the...
     * Roundtable “Free to Create: Artistic Freedom in Slovenia, and in
       Europe, today”
          + Twitter
          + Facebook
          + LinkedIn
          + Email
       2 oct. 2023

Roundtable “Free to Create: Artistic Freedom in Slovenia, and in Europe,
today”
       Ljubljana, Slovenia (Slovenian Museum of Modern Art, Cankarjeva
       ulica 15) 2 October 2023 (5 pm)
       A round table discussion will be co-organised by the Council of
       Europe and the Slovenian Ministry...
     * European Heritage Days 2023
          + Twitter
          + Facebook
          + LinkedIn
          + Email
       1 sept. 2023

European Heritage Days 2023
       Europe 1st september 2023
       Living Heritage is the pan-European theme for the 2023 European
       Heritage Days. Tens of thousands...
     * Sixth annual gathering of the Faro Convention Network (FCN)
          + Twitter
          + Facebook
          + LinkedIn
          + Email
       29 juin 2023

Sixth annual gathering of the Faro Convention Network (FCN)
       Kaunas, Lithuania 20-22 June 2023
       In the framework of the Faro Convention Action Plan, the Council of
       Europe celebrated the sixth...

   more news 

   [edit-2.svg]
   Culture

   [view-all.svg]
   Cultural heritage

   [document.svg]
   Standards

   Nicosia Convention Film

   IFRAME:
   https://player.vimeo.com/video/481599946?h=0223904fc6title=0byline=0
   portrait=0

   Digital exhibition

   IFRAME: https://player.vimeo.com/video/563120826?h=d7bf78e5f2

   Council of Europe Conference of Ministers of Culture
   Strasbourg, 1 April 2022

   useful links
     * Steering Committee for Culture, Heritage and Landscape (CDCPP)
     * Landscape activities

   Information systems
     * Compendium of Cultural Policies and Trends in Europe
     * HEREIN: Heritage Network

[mail-1.svg] Contact us

   (BUTTON) Hidden

   logo Council of Europe Council of Europe Portal

About

     * Who we are
     * Human Rights
     * Democracy
     * Rule of Law
     * European Convention on Human Rights
     * Jobs and Traineeships
     * Visit us

Follow us

     * [icon-facebook.png] Facebook
     * [icon-twitter.png] X (Twitter)
     * [icon-instagram.png] Instagram
     * [icon-linkedin.png] LinkedIn
     * [icon-youtube.png] Youtube
     * [icon-flickr.png] Flickr

Contacts

     * Private office of the Secretary General
     * Contact for the media
     * External offices
     * Newsletters
     * Procurement
     * Grants
     * Patronage
     * Report wrongdoing
     * Oversight Advisory Committee
     * Ethics Officer

Multimedia

     * Newsroom
     * Human Rights Channel
     * Photo galleries
     * Online bookshop
     * Online resources
     * Campaigns

USEFUL LINKS

     * Archives
     * Archived web pages
     * Amicale
     * Administrative Tribunal
     * Accessibility
     * Sitemap
     * Access

   logo Council of Europe
    Intranet

   Council of Europe,
   Avenue de l'Europe F-67075 Strasbourg Cedex, France -
   Tel. +33 (0)3 88 41 20 00
   Disclaimer - © Council of Europe 2024 - © Photo credit - Contact - RSS</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-33">
<text>   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WSX5PBP

   If you're seeing this message, it means we're having trouble loading
   external resources on our website.

   If you're behind a web filter, please make sure that the domains
   *.kastatic.org and *.kasandbox.org are unblocked.

   To log in and use all the features of Khan Academy, please enable
   JavaScript in your browser.
   (BUTTON) Courses
   Search
   Get AI GuideDonateLog inSign up
   Search for courses, skills, and videos
   (BUTTON)
   Main content

Special topics in art history

   (BUTTON)

Course: Special topics in art history  Unit 1

   Lesson 1: A beginner's guide
   (BUTTON)
     * ARCHES
     * What is Cultural Heritage?
     * Cultural heritage “in Crisis”
     * Blow it up: cultural heritage and film
     * ARCHES advisors

   Arts and humanities
   Special topics in art history
   ARCHES (At Risk Cultural Heritage Education Series)
   A beginner's guide
   © 2024 Khan Academy
   Terms of usePrivacy PolicyCookie Notice
   (BUTTON)

What is Cultural Heritage?

   Google Classroom
   By Elena Franchi
   Leonardo da Vinci, Mona Lisa, c. 1503–05, oil on panel, 30-1/4 x 21
   inches (Musée du Louvre)
   Leonardo da Vinci, Mona Lisa, c. 1503–05, oil on panel, 30-1/4 x 21
   inches (Musée du Louvre)
   We often hear about the importance of cultural heritage. But what is
   cultural heritage? And whose heritage is it? Whose national heritage,
   for example, does the Mona Lisa by Leonardo da Vinci belong to? Is it
   French or Italian?
   First of all, let’s have a look at the meaning of the words. “Heritage”
   is a property, something that is inherited, passed down from previous
   generations. In the case of “cultural heritage,” the heritage doesn’t
   consist of money or property, but of culture, values, and traditions.
   Cultural heritage implies a shared bond, our belonging to a community.
   It represents our history and our identity; our bond to the past, to
   our present, and the future.
   Medallion Carpet, The Ardabil Carpet, Unknown artist (Maqsud Kashani is
   named on the carpet’s inscription), Persian: Safavid Dynasty, silk
   warps and wefts with wool pile (25 million knots, 340 per square inch),
   1539–40 C.E., Tabriz, Kashan, Isfahan or Kirman, Iran (Victoria and
   Albert Museum)
   Medallion Carpet, The Ardabil Carpet, Unknown artist (Maqsud Kashani is
   named on the carpet’s inscription), Persian: Safavid Dynasty, silk
   warps and wefts with wool pile (25 million knots, 340 per square inch),
   1539–40 C.E., Tabriz, Kashan, Isfahan or Kirman, Iran (Victoria and
   Albert Museum)

Tangible and intangible cultural heritage

   Cultural heritage often brings to mind artifacts (paintings, drawings,
   prints, mosaics, sculptures), historical monuments and buildings, as
   well as archaeological sites. But the concept of cultural heritage is
   even wider than that, and has gradually grown to include all evidence
   of human creativity and expression: photographs, documents, books and
   manuscripts, and instruments, etc. either as individual objects or as
   collections. Today, towns, underwater heritage, and the natural
   environment are also considered part of cultural heritage since
   communities identify themselves with the natural landscape.
   Moreover, cultural heritage is not only limited to material objects
   that we can see and touch. It also consists of immaterial elements:
   traditions, oral history, performing arts, social practices,
   traditional craftsmanship, representations, rituals, knowledge, and
   skills transmitted from generation to generation within a community.
   Intangible heritage, therefore, includes a dizzying array of
   traditions, music, and dances such as tango and flamenco, holy
   processions, carnivals, falconry, Viennese coffee house culture, the
   Azerbaijani carpet and its weaving traditions, Chinese shadow puppetry,
   the Mediterranean diet, Vedic chanting,
   (BUTTON) Kabuki theatre
   , the polyphonic singing of the Aka of Central Africa (to name a few
   examples).
   Djingareyber Mosque, built 1327, Timbuktu, Mali. Two tombs at this
   mosque were attacked by Islamic extremists in 2012. (photo: Johannes
   Zielcke, CC BY-NC-ND 2.0)
   Djingareyber Mosque, built 1327, Timbuktu, Mali. Two tombs at this
   mosque were attacked by Islamic extremists in 2012. (photo: Johannes
   Zielcke, CC BY-NC-ND 2.0)

The importance of protecting cultural heritage

   But cultural heritage is not just a set of cultural objects or
   traditions from the past. It is also the result of a selection process:
   a process of memory and oblivion that characterizes every human society
   constantly engaged in choosing—for both cultural and political
   reasons—what is worthy of being preserved for future generations and
   what is not.
   All peoples make their contribution to the culture of the world. That’s
   why it’s important to respect and safeguard all cultural heritage,
   through national laws and international treaties. Illicit trafficking
   of artifacts and cultural objects, pillaging of archaeological sites,
   and destruction of historical buildings and monuments cause irreparable
   damage to the cultural heritage of a country. UNESCO (United Nations
   Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization), founded in 1954,
   has adopted international conventions on the protection of cultural
   heritage, to foster intercultural understanding while stressing the
   importance of international cooperation.
   The protection of cultural property is an old problem. One of the most
   frequently recurring issues in protecting cultural heritage is the
   difficult relationship between the interests of the individual and the
   community, the balance between private and public rights.
   Ancient Romans established that a work of art could be considered part
   of the patrimony of the whole community, even if privately owned. For
   example, sculptures decorating the façade of a private building were
   recognized as having a common value and couldn’t be removed, since they
   stood in a public site, where they could be seen by all citizens.
   Lysippos of Sikyon, Apoxyomenos (Scraper), c. 50 A.D., Hellenistic or
   Roman copy after Greek original, c. 390–306 B.C.E., 207.3 cm / 6 feet 9
   inches high (Vatican Museums)
   Lysippos of Sikyon, Apoxyomenos (Scraper), c. 50 A.D., Hellenistic or
   Roman copy after Greek original, c. 390–306 B.C.E., 207.3 cm / 6 feet 9
   inches high (Vatican Museums)
   Lysippos of Sikyon, Apoxyomenos (Scraper), Hellenistic or Roman copy
   after 4th c. Greek original, c. 390–306 B.C.E., 207.3 cm  high (Vatican
   Museums)
   Lysippos of Sikyon, Apoxyomenos (Scraper), Hellenistic or Roman copy
   after 4th c. Greek original, c. 390–306 B.C.E., 207.3 cm  high (Vatican
   Museums)
   In his Naturalis Historia, the Roman author Pliny the Elder (23–79
   C.E.) reported that the statesman and general
   (BUTTON) Agrippa
   placed the Apoxyomenos, a masterpiece by the very famous Greek sculptor
   Lysippos, in front of his thermal baths. The statue represented an
   athlete scraping dust, sweat, and oil from his body with a particular
   instrument called a “strigil, or scraper. Emperor
   (BUTTON) Tiberius
   deeply admired the sculpture and ordered it be removed from public view
   and placed in his private palace. The Roman people rose up and obliged
   him to return the Apoxyomenos to its previous location, where everyone
   could admire it.
   Our right to enjoy the arts, and to participate in the cultural life of
   the community is included in the United Nation’s 1948 Universal
   Declaration of Human Rights. [1]

Whose cultural heritage?

   The term “cultural heritage” typically conjures up the idea of a single
   society and the communication between its members. But cultural
   boundaries are not necessarily well-defined. Artists, writers,
   scientists, craftsmen, and musicians learn from each other, even if
   they belong to different cultures, far removed in space or time. Just
   think about the influence of Japanese prints on Paul Gauguin’s
   paintings; or of African masks on Pablo Picasso’s works. Or you could
   also think of western architecture in Liberian homes in Africa. When
   some of the freed African-American enslaved people went back to their
   homeland*, they built homes inspired by the neoclassical style of
   mansions on American plantations. American neoclassical style was in
   turn influenced by the Renaissance architect Andrea Palladio, who had
   been influenced by Roman and Greek architecture.
   Let’s take another example, that of the Mona Lisa painted in the early
   sixteenth century by Leonardo da Vinci, and displayed at the Musée du
   Louvre in Paris. From a modern point of view, whose national heritage
   does the Mona Lisa belong to?
   People taking photos of the Mona Lisa (photo: Heather Anne Campbell, CC
   BY-NC-ND 2.0)
   People taking photos of the Mona Lisa (photo: Heather Anne Campbell, CC
   BY-NC-ND 2.0)
   Leonardo was a very famous Italian painter, that’s why the Mona Lisa is
   obviously part of the Italian cultural heritage. When Leonardo went to
   France, to work at
   (BUTTON) King Francis I
   ’s court, he probably brought the Mona Lisa with him. It seems that in
   1518 King Francis I acquired the Mona Lisa, which therefore ended up in
   the royal collections: that’s why it is obviously part of the French
   national heritage, too. This painting has been defined as the best
   known, the most visited, the most written about, and the most parodied
   work of art in the world: as such, it belongs to the cultural heritage
   of all mankind.
   Cultural heritage passed down to us from our parents must be preserved
   for the benefit of all. In an era of globalization, cultural heritage
   helps us to remember our cultural diversity, and its understanding
   develops mutual respect and renewed dialogue amongst different
   cultures.
   Notes:
   [1] See Article 27 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Additional resources
   UNESCO on falconry
   UNESCO on Chinese shadow puppetry
   UNESCO on Vedic Chanting
   UNESCO on Polyphonic singing of the Aka Pygmies of Central Africa
   More from Smarthistory on at-risk cultural heritage education series
   (ARCHES).
   More stories of protecting our heritage and fostering creativity from
   UNESCO.
   The Universal Declaration of Human Rights from the United Nations.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Essay by Elena Franchi
     __________________________________________________________________

   (BUTTON) Questions (BUTTON) Tips  Thanks

Want to join the conversation?

   Log in
   Sort by:
   (BUTTON) Top Voted
     * leaf red style avatar for user petramhartwig
       petramhartwig
       9 years ago
       Posted 9 years ago. Direct link to petramhartwig's post “I enjoy
       and support the c...”
       (BUTTON)
       more
       I enjoy and support the culture of all peoples, but I have a
       conflict when it comes to acquiring artifacts for my own pleasure -
       it feels like I am robbing or faking the enjoyment as my own. An
       example is the jewelry made by our Native Americans. Made of
       feathers and natural elements, I don't feel right wearing it since
       it is not part of my culture (I'm German). Silly , I know, but I
       wish to be respectful.
       (BUTTON) AnswerButton navigates to signup page• (BUTTON) 1
       commentComment on petramhartwig's post “I enjoy and support the
       c...”
       (27 votes)
          + (BUTTON)
            Upvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Downvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Flag
            Button navigates to signup page
       (BUTTON)
       more
       Answer
       Default Khan Academy avatar avatar for user
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       (BUTTON) Show preview (BUTTON) Show formatting options
       (BUTTON) Post answer
          + leafers sapling style avatar for user Heather T
            Heather T
            5 years ago
            Posted 5 years ago. Direct link to Heather T's post “If you
            bought this jewelr...”
            Good Answer
            (BUTTON)
            more
            If you bought this jewelry new in a shop that features Native
            artists, it was made to be worn by anyone, which includes you
            (and when people ask you about it, tell them where they can
            buy it; artists need to eat).
            (BUTTON) CommentButton navigates to signup page
            (18 votes)
               o (BUTTON)
                 Upvote
                 Button navigates to signup page
               o (BUTTON)
                 Downvote
                 Button navigates to signup page
               o (BUTTON)
                 Flag
                 Button navigates to signup page
            (BUTTON)
            more
       (BUTTON) Show more...
     * blobby green style avatar for user ccw250
       ccw250
       8 years ago
       Posted 8 years ago. Direct link to ccw250's post “In the final
       paragraph El...”
       (BUTTON)
       more
       In the final paragraph Elena Franchi said "Cultrual heritage passed
       down to us from our parents must be preserved" that profoundly
       resonated deeply in my spirit. Why? Because generations of culture,
       family heritage and ancient religious practices are lost to
       generations through the tearing down of of old churches, and
       abandonment of schools and public buildings. ALOT OF THESE PLACES
       HAVE PAINTINGS AND CARVINGS RIGHT ON THE STRUCTURE...what happens
       then?
       (BUTTON) AnswerButton navigates to signup page• (BUTTON) 1
       commentComment on ccw250's post “In the final paragraph El...”
       (16 votes)
          + (BUTTON)
            Upvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Downvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Flag
            Button navigates to signup page
       (BUTTON)
       more
       Answer
       Default Khan Academy avatar avatar for user
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       (BUTTON) Show preview (BUTTON) Show formatting options
       (BUTTON) Post answer
     * starky seedling style avatar for user Dyanna Hills
       Dyanna Hills
       7 years ago
       Posted 7 years ago. Direct link to Dyanna Hills's post “Where does
       cultural appro...”
       (BUTTON)
       more
       Where does cultural appropriation play into this discussion of
       cultural heritage? This is something that has often been discussed
       about Pablo Picasso's work that was inspired by African masks. It
       is one thing to be inspired, but where is the line drawn between
       being inspired to appropriating artistic styles that are not your
       own? If cultural heritage is something that should be preserved for
       us all, does this mean we all have the right to take inspiration
       from whatever is not our own culture? If so, is this okay as long
       as we acknowledge it as something that is not our own?
       (BUTTON) AnswerButton navigates to signup page• (BUTTON) 1
       commentComment on Dyanna Hills's post “Where does cultural
       appro...”
       (21 votes)
          + (BUTTON)
            Upvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Downvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Flag
            Button navigates to signup page
       (BUTTON)
       more
       Answer
       Default Khan Academy avatar avatar for user
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       (BUTTON) Show preview (BUTTON) Show formatting options
       (BUTTON) Post answer
     * male robot hal style avatar for user R3hall
       R3hall
       9 years ago
       Posted 9 years ago. Direct link to R3hall's post “Isn't cultural
       heritage i...”
       (BUTTON)
       more
       Isn't cultural heritage is also a form of history: "learn from it
       or be doomed to repeat its blunders"?
       (BUTTON) AnswerButton navigates to signup page• (BUTTON)
       CommentButton navigates to signup page
       (16 votes)
          + (BUTTON)
            Upvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Downvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Flag
            Button navigates to signup page
       (BUTTON)
       more
       Answer
       Default Khan Academy avatar avatar for user
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       (BUTTON) Show preview (BUTTON) Show formatting options
       (BUTTON) Post answer
          + blobby green style avatar for user Tatianna Jaynes
            Tatianna Jaynes
            7 years ago
            Posted 7 years ago. Direct link to Tatianna Jaynes's post “The
            way I see, Culture is...”
            (BUTTON)
            more
            The way I see, Culture is a way of life. Or more accurately
            how you live your life. Cultural heritage is a way to catalog
            how the past ways of life flow into what they have become
            today. So yes cultural heritage is a form of history. But
            rather then focusing on dates and facts, cultural heritage
            focuses on intellectual and spiritual humanity.
            (BUTTON) CommentButton navigates to signup page
            (9 votes)
               o (BUTTON)
                 Upvote
                 Button navigates to signup page
               o (BUTTON)
                 Downvote
                 Button navigates to signup page
               o (BUTTON)
                 Flag
                 Button navigates to signup page
            (BUTTON)
            more
       (BUTTON) Show more...
     * mr pants teal style avatar for user Diana Kayser
       Diana Kayser
       9 years ago
       Posted 9 years ago. Direct link to Diana Kayser's post “Would you
       say that all ar...”
       (BUTTON)
       more
       Would you say that all art moves the viewer in a private, specific,
       way? Thank you for sharing! I love art.
       Diana Kayser
       (BUTTON) AnswerButton navigates to signup page• (BUTTON)
       CommentButton navigates to signup page
       (8 votes)
          + (BUTTON)
            Upvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Downvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Flag
            Button navigates to signup page
       (BUTTON)
       more
       Answer
       Default Khan Academy avatar avatar for user
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       (BUTTON) Show preview (BUTTON) Show formatting options
       (BUTTON) Post answer
          + blobby green style avatar for user cjnannycarol
            cjnannycarol
            8 years ago
            Posted 8 years ago. Direct link to cjnannycarol's post
            “Cultural Heritage is the ...”
            (BUTTON)
            more
            Cultural Heritage is the sum total of various influences on an
            individual, as of a particular point in time, that influences
            that person to voice their thoughts, opinions and ideas to
            others. Culture over time can and will change as new ideas are
            explored and adopted
            (BUTTON) CommentButton navigates to signup page
            (3 votes)
               o (BUTTON)
                 Upvote
                 Button navigates to signup page
               o (BUTTON)
                 Downvote
                 Button navigates to signup page
               o (BUTTON)
                 Flag
                 Button navigates to signup page
            (BUTTON)
            more
       (BUTTON) Show more...
     * blobby green style avatar for user Maddy Anjum
       Maddy Anjum
       7 years ago
       Posted 7 years ago. Direct link to Maddy Anjum's post “Hey I just
       loved the arti...”
       (BUTTON)
       more
       Hey I just loved the article as it spoke on behalf of the people as
       me who thrive to preserve their heritage but in vain. Here in
       Pakistan, more than 1000 sites are unpreserved and untouched to
       conserve. And the level of negligence is too high. I approached
       many departments but they said, that since I belong to an IR field,
       how could you possibly be concerned or worried about Heritage? Like
       seriously! If people as You can assist and suppport our vision in
       our countries, things would be better. I yearn to save and protect
       my HERITAGE InshaaAllah which I would do so. Kudos for your
       article. It speaks Volume :)
       (BUTTON) AnswerButton navigates to signup page• (BUTTON) 1
       commentComment on Maddy Anjum's post “Hey I just loved the arti...”
       (10 votes)
          + (BUTTON)
            Upvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Downvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Flag
            Button navigates to signup page
       (BUTTON)
       more
       Answer
       Default Khan Academy avatar avatar for user
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       (BUTTON) Show preview (BUTTON) Show formatting options
       (BUTTON) Post answer
     * male robot johnny style avatar for user TashWill
       TashWill
       6 years ago
       Posted 6 years ago. Direct link to TashWill's post “Why is the Mona
       Lisa pain...”
       (BUTTON)
       more
       Why is the Mona Lisa painting so famous?i'm going to do some
       research on her.I'm very curious.
       (BUTTON) AnswerButton navigates to signup page• (BUTTON)
       CommentButton navigates to signup page
       (4 votes)
          + (BUTTON)
            Upvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Downvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Flag
            Button navigates to signup page
       (BUTTON)
       more
       Answer
       Default Khan Academy avatar avatar for user
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       (BUTTON) Show preview (BUTTON) Show formatting options
       (BUTTON) Post answer
          + hopper jumping style avatar for user Ladie
            Ladie
            6 years ago
            Posted 6 years ago. Direct link to Ladie's post “Although
            Leonardo da Vinc...”
            Good Answer
            (BUTTON)
            more
            Although Leonardo da Vinci painted The Mona Lisa between 1503
            and 1506, it didn't become famous in 1911 when it became
            missing. A former employee of the Louvre Museum, Vincenzo
            Peruggia, and his helpers stole the painting. Peruggia hid the
            painting in his apartment for 2 years. But when he tried to
            sell it to an art gallery in Florence, Italy, he was arrested.
            When the Mona Lisa was missing, a lot of hype was created by
            the media and the authorities. So when it was returned, over
            100,000 people went to see it. Then the Louvre featured it as
            one of its main attractions. It formerly was just another
            less-known painting. Overtime, various kinds of experts began
            to focus on it too. So this is probably the primary reason it
            became famous.
            Arthearty.com
            (BUTTON) CommentButton navigates to signup page
            (10 votes)
               o (BUTTON)
                 Upvote
                 Button navigates to signup page
               o (BUTTON)
                 Downvote
                 Button navigates to signup page
               o (BUTTON)
                 Flag
                 Button navigates to signup page
            (BUTTON)
            more
     * blobby green style avatar for user amdoukaki
       amdoukaki
       4 years ago
       Posted 4 years ago. Direct link to amdoukaki's post “What about the
       spoils of ...”
       (BUTTON)
       more
       What about the spoils of war? For example, the marbles from
       Parthenon and many more Greek statues are displayed in London,
       still not returned to Greece.
       Many pieces of art are displayed in museums all around the world as
       a result of looting during times of war.Is it morally correct to
       deprive pieces of history and culture from a now peaceful nation?
       (BUTTON) AnswerButton navigates to signup page• (BUTTON)
       CommentButton navigates to signup page
       (7 votes)
          + (BUTTON)
            Upvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Downvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Flag
            Button navigates to signup page
       (BUTTON)
       more
       Answer
       Default Khan Academy avatar avatar for user
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       (BUTTON) Show preview (BUTTON) Show formatting options
       (BUTTON) Post answer
          + aqualine ultimate style avatar for user jun.manzen
            jun.manzen
            5 months ago
            Posted 5 months ago. Direct link to jun.manzen's post “i
            agree. a LOT of egyptia...”
            (BUTTON)
            more
            i agree. a LOT of egyptian history was taken by force from its
            country, and it still has not been returned. england needs to
            return ALL of the relics and art back to their original
            countries.
            (BUTTON) CommentButton navigates to signup page
            (1 vote)
               o (BUTTON)
                 Upvote
                 Button navigates to signup page
               o (BUTTON)
                 Downvote
                 Button navigates to signup page
               o (BUTTON)
                 Flag
                 Button navigates to signup page
            (BUTTON)
            more
       (BUTTON) Show more...
     * stelly green style avatar for user Nandini Chaudhary
       Nandini Chaudhary
       2 years ago
       Posted 2 years ago. Direct link to Nandini Chaudhary's post “Will
       the Mona Lisa be kno...”
       (BUTTON)
       more
       Will the Mona Lisa be known as part of the Italian cultural
       heritage or France? Because even though it's made in France,
       Leanardo was a famous ITALIAN painter.
       (BUTTON) AnswerButton navigates to signup page• (BUTTON) 1
       commentComment on Nandini Chaudhary's post “Will the Mona Lisa be
       kno...”
       (5 votes)
          + (BUTTON)
            Upvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Downvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Flag
            Button navigates to signup page
       (BUTTON)
       more
       Answer
       Default Khan Academy avatar avatar for user
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       (BUTTON) Show preview (BUTTON) Show formatting options
       (BUTTON) Post answer
          + aqualine tree style avatar for user David Alexander
            David Alexander
            2 years ago
            Posted 2 years ago. Direct link to David Alexander's post “The
            Mona Lisa is neither ...”
            (BUTTON)
            more
            The Mona Lisa is neither French nor Italian, it is from a time
            and culture before Italy, as a political state, even existed.
            Since the painter, Leonardo, was a homosexual, you might just
            as easily say that is part of Gay cultural heritage.
            (BUTTON) CommentButton navigates to signup page
            (4 votes)
               o (BUTTON)
                 Upvote
                 Button navigates to signup page
               o (BUTTON)
                 Downvote
                 Button navigates to signup page
               o (BUTTON)
                 Flag
                 Button navigates to signup page
            (BUTTON)
            more
     * duskpin seedling style avatar for user Jiayun Liu
       Jiayun Liu
       4 years ago
       Posted 4 years ago. Direct link to Jiayun Liu's post “Why did
       nobody smile for ...”
       (BUTTON)
       more
       Why did nobody smile for pictures?
       (BUTTON) AnswerButton navigates to signup page• (BUTTON) 1
       commentComment on Jiayun Liu's post “Why did nobody smile for ...”
       (2 votes)
          + (BUTTON)
            Upvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Downvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Flag
            Button navigates to signup page
       (BUTTON)
       more
       Answer
       Default Khan Academy avatar avatar for user
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       (BUTTON) Show preview (BUTTON) Show formatting options
       (BUTTON) Post answer
          + aqualine tree style avatar for user David Alexander
            David Alexander
            4 years ago
            Posted 4 years ago. Direct link to David Alexander's post
            “There are people in this ...”
            (BUTTON)
            more
            There are people in this world who think that their smile is
            unattractive. There are people in this world who think
            themselves to be unattractive, and don't like cameras pointed
            at them. There are people in this world who believe that a
            camera takes more than a visual image, but also subtracts a
            little bit of their being.
            (BUTTON) CommentButton navigates to signup page
            (7 votes)
               o (BUTTON)
                 Upvote
                 Button navigates to signup page
               o (BUTTON)
                 Downvote
                 Button navigates to signup page
               o (BUTTON)
                 Flag
                 Button navigates to signup page
            (BUTTON)
            more

   (BUTTON) Loading...</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-34">
<text>   #alternate Edit this page Wikipedia (en) Wikipedia Atom feed

   Jump to content

   [ ] Main menu
   Main menu
   (BUTTON) move to sidebar (BUTTON) hide
   Navigation
     * Main page
     * Contents
     * Current events
     * Random article
     * About Wikipedia
     * Contact us
     * Donate

   Contribute
     * Help
     * Learn to edit
     * Community portal
     * Recent changes
     * Upload file

   Languages
   Language links are at the top of the page.
   Wikipedia The Free Encyclopedia
   Search
   ____________________
   (BUTTON) Search

     * Create account
     * Log in

   [ ] Personal tools
     * Create account
     * Log in

   Pages for logged out editors learn more
     * Contributions
     * Talk

Contents

   (BUTTON) move to sidebar (BUTTON) hide
     * (Top)
     * 1Types of heritage
       (BUTTON) Toggle Types of heritage subsection

     * 1.1Cultural property

     1.2Intangible culture

     1.3Natural heritage

     1.4Digital heritage



   2Protection of cultural heritage

   (BUTTON) Toggle Protection of cultural heritage subsection
     * 2.1History



   3The ethics and rationale of cultural preservation



   4World heritage movement



   5National and regional heritage movements



   6Issues in cultural heritage



   7Management of cultural heritage



   8Cultural heritage digital preservation



   9See also

   (BUTTON) Toggle See also subsection
     * 9.1Digital methods in preservation



   10References



   11Further reading



   12External links

   [ ] Toggle the table of contents

Cultural heritage

   [ ] 57 languages
     * العربية
     * Արեւմտահայերէն
     * Bân-lâm-gú
     * Башҡортса
     * Bikol Central
     * Български
     * Catal</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-35">
<text>   #alternate alternate alternate

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-M7B3LZV

   The Heritage Foundation

Join the most influential conservative group in America

   For 50 years, The Heritage Foundation has led the conservative
   movement. Now you can be part of this exclusive group.

   Become Part of a Movement That Can Transform America

   Free enterprise, limited government, individual freedom, traditional
   American values, and a strong national defense—these are the values
   that we fight for every single day. As the nation’s largest, most
   broadly-supported think tank, The Heritage Foundation has long been the
   bastion of the American conservative movement. And with more than
   500,000 members, our ranks are growing stronger every day. And now, you
   can join us and help to ensure that your values are being advanced in
   Washington, in the Media, and across this great nation.

   America faces difficult times ahead—but there is hope

   Right now, our nation is heading into a time of trial. We live in a
   deeply divided nation, where public discourse is broken and respect for
   different opinions has dwindled to nothing. Two opposing ideologies
   fight for the future of America.

   The outlook seems bleak, and the deck seems stacked against
   conservative principles. We have a White House and legislature bent on
   pushing a far-left agenda. They want to end the filibuster, pack the
   Supreme Court with their own judges, and advance their socialist
   policies unchecked. If they’re not stopped, we could see deeply
   disastrous policies like the Green New Deal, Medicare-for-All, and
   attacks on our freedom of speech become reality.

Enough is enough—it is time for renewal in America.

   As the far left threatens to take more control of our lives and
   livelihoods, The Heritage Foundation fights back with policy solutions
   that can make America that “shining city upon a hill” once again. And
   we are strategically positioned to do just that:
     * Heritage has a media distribution network second to none. Over 5
       million Americans visit our Daily Signal website each year, and
       nearly a million follow The Daily Signal on Facebook, bypassing the
       mainstream media filter to get the facts. Heritage experts appear
       on television and radio every week, publish hundreds of policy
       research reports annually, and host hundreds of meetings a year
       with grassroots leaders and local and national officials. We make
       sure that your conservative principles can be heard loud and clear.
     * Heritage stands strong for conservative principles no matter who’s
       in office, and we have for almost half a century. As Rush Limbaugh
       has said, “As long as there has been conservatism, there has been
       The Heritage Foundation. They have been a bulwark and they have
       they have stood strong and they have not wavered.”
     * Heritage’s over 100 policy experts are committed to solving complex
       policy issues with simple and effective conservative solutions, and
       making sure those recommendations are available for the
       conservative lawmakers who desperately need them right now.

Get Exclusive Insider Access to Heritage When You Become a Member Today

   When you become an official member of The Heritage Foundation, you
   become part of a committed band of fellow conservatives who stand for
   our Founding principles of free enterprise, limited government,
   individual liberty, traditional American values, and a strong national
   defense. And as a member, you also get special access to content and
   benefits that are not available anywhere else:

   Official Heritage Foundation Membership Card

   Heritage Foundation members are proud to stand for their conservative
   principles and we recognize each member with their own exclusive
   membership card.

   Special Invitations to Conservative Gatherings

   As a member, you will be invited to attend virtual gatherings where you
   can interact directly with Heritage experts and other conservative
   movement leaders.

   Exclusive Updates from the Heritage President

   We want you to be constantly informed about the impact of our your
   membership. Every member will receive regular updates from the front
   lines of policy battles happening in Washington DC and across the
   country.

   Subscription to the Morning Bell

   Stay informed with the day’s most important news, conservative
   commentary, and policy analysis with a free subscription to the Morning
   Bell, delivered to your inbox every weekday morning.

Activate Your Membership to The Heritage Foundation Instantly

   You are our best hope for America. With your generous tax-deductible
   gift of $25 or more, you will set yourself apart as an official member
   of The Heritage Foundation, and empower your conservative principles to
   be heard loud, clear, and unashamed across our nation. Your membership
   goes a long way to building an America where freedom, prosperity,
   opportunity and civil society flourish. Simply complete the form below
   and your membership will be instantly activated.

Your Donation

   $50
   $100
   $250
   $
   ____________________
   [ ] Make this a recurring donation .
   (BUTTON)
   or use the fields below

Your Information

   First Name ____________________
   Last Name ____________________
   Email Address ____________________
   Country
   Address ____________________
   City ____________________
   State / Province
   Zip / Postal Code ____________________
   Phone Number (Optional) ____________________

Payment Method

   (BUTTON) Credit Card (BUTTON) Bank Account

Credit Card Information

   Card Number ____________________
   CVV ____________________
   Exp. Month [01]
   Exp. Year [2024]

Bank Account Information

   Routing Number
   ____________________
   Account Number
   ____________________
   Confirm Account Number ____________________

Spam Detection

   In an effort to prevent spam, we have added this field. It should be
   blank before submitting. ___________________
   Please leave this field blank
   Make My Gift

Thank you for your gift to the Heritage Foundation!

   You know that sound conservative policy is the best answer to our
   nation’s problems.

   But the liberal left and the Washington Establishment have been blinded
   by fake news and a stubborn resolve to keep the status quo. This is
   unacceptable! They have to feel the heat—and that’s where Heritage
   Action for America comes in. Heritage Action’s lobbyists and grassroots
   activists put political pressure on legislators and lawmakers to get
   The Heritage Foundation’s policies across the finish line. Each and
   every day, Heritage Action is pressuring lawmakers to step it up and
   fix health care, stop amnesty, and pass welfare reform—or they’ll feel
   the heat at the polls. But we can’t do this without you.

Hold Washington’s feet to the fire with your gift to Heritage Action today!

Your Donation

   $
   ____________________
   [ ] Make this a recurring donation .
   (BUTTON)
   or use the fields below

Your Information

   First Name ____________________
   Last Name ____________________
   Email Address ____________________
   Country
   Address ____________________
   City ____________________
   State / Province
   Zip / Postal Code ____________________
   Phone Number (Optional) ____________________

Payment Method

   (BUTTON) Credit Card (BUTTON) Bank Account

Credit Card Information

   Card Number ____________________
   CVV ____________________
   Exp. Month [01]
   Exp. Year [2024]

Bank Account Information

   Routing Number
   ____________________
   Account Number
   ____________________
   Confirm Account Number ____________________

Spam Detection

   In an effort to prevent spam, we have added this field. It should be
   blank before submitting. ___________________
   Please leave this field blank
   Make My Gift

   Heritage Action for America is a section 501(c)(4) nonprofit
   organization under the Internal Revenue Code. As such, contributions to
   Heritage Action for America are not tax deductible as charitable
   contributions. Heritage Action for America promotes conservative public
   policies based on the principles of free enterprise, limited
   government, individual freedom, traditional American values, and a
   strong national defense. Donors should consult their tax advisors about
   the tax treatment of their contributions.

   When selecting a recurring donation, The Heritage Foundation will
   process this donation every month in the amount that you specify using
   the method of payment that you identified. You can cancel or change
   this donation at any time by contacting us at 1-800-546-2843.

   The Heritage Foundation is a 501(c)(3) charitable organization and
   charitable contributions are tax-deductible for income, gift and estate
   taxes. Our federal tax identification number is 23-7327730. State
   Registration Disclosures

   Donations to support the activities of our sister organization,
   Heritage Action for America, may be made after making your donation to
   The Heritage Foundation. Heritage Action for America is a section
   501(c)(4) nonprofit organization under the Internal Revenue Code. As
   such, contributions to Heritage Action for America are not tax
   deductible as charitable contributions. State Registration Disclosures

   State registration disclosures

   © 2024 The Heritage Foundation
   Conservative policy research since 1973</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-36">
<text>     * Fox News Media
     * Fox News Media
     * Fox Business
     * Fox Nation
     * Fox News Audio
     * Fox Weather
     * Outkick
     * Books

   Fox News
     * U.S.
     * Politics
     * World
     * Opinion
     * Media
     * Entertainment
     * Sports
     * Lifestyle
     * Video
     * AI
     * More

   Expand / Collapse search
   Login
   Watch TV
   Menu

   ____________________ Search

U.S.

     * Crime
     * Military
     * Education
     * Terror
     * Immigration
     * Economy
     * Personal Freedoms
     * Fox News Investigates
     * Digital Originals

Politics

     * Executive
     * Senate
     * House
     * Judiciary
     * Foreign Policy
     * Polls
     * Elections

World

     * U.N.
     * Conflicts
     * Terrorism
     * Disasters
     * Global Economy
     * Environment
     * Religion
     * Scandals

Opinion

Media

Entertainment

     * Celebrity News
     * Movies
     * TV News
     * Music News
     * Style News
     * Entertainment Video

Sports

     * NFL
     * College Football
     * MLB
     * NBA
     * NHL
     * Golf
     * Tennis
     * Soccer
     * UFC
     * WWE

Lifestyle

     * Health
     * Food  Drink
     * Auto
     * Travel  Outdoors
     * House  Home
     * Style  Beauty
     * Family
     * Faith

FOX Business

     * Personal Finance
     * Economy
     * Markets
     * Watchlist
     * Lifestyle
     * Real Estate
     * Tech

Science  Tech

     * Air  Space
     * Security
     * Innovation
     * Video Games
     * Military Tech
     * Planet Earth
     * Wild Nature

Watch Live

     * FOX News Shows
     * On Air Personalities
     * Full Episodes
     * Show Clips
     * News Clips

Apps  Products

     * FOX News Go
     * FOX Weather
     * FOX Nation
     * FOX News Shop
     * FOX News Radio
     * Outkick
     * Newsletters
     * Podcasts

   Fox News
     * New Terms of Use
     * New Privacy Policy
     * Your Privacy Choices
     * Closed Captioning Policy
     * Help
     * Contact Us

   This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or
   redistributed. ©2024 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes
   displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data
   provided by Factset. Powered and implemented by FactSet Digital
   Solutions. Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by
   Refinitiv Lipper.
     * Facebook
     * Twitter
     * Instagram
     * RSS
     * Email

   Border security

CBP memo orders agents not to misgender 'members of the public'

Meanings of gender terms 'may change over time': CBP document

   Jamie Joseph By Jamie Joseph Fox News
   Published November 22, 2023 4:00am EST
     * Facebook
     * Twitter
     * Flipboard
     * Comments
     * Print
     * Email

   close
   Reporter spars with State Department official on why they added
   'mandatory' pronouns to emails Video

Reporter spars with State Department official on why they added 'mandatory'
pronouns to emails

   AP’s State Department reporter Matt Lee grilled deputy spokesperson
   Vedant Patel on the change after Thursday's briefing.

   An internal U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) memo obtained by
   the Heritage Foundation's Oversight Project and shared with Fox News
   Digital prohibits agents from using "he, him, she, her" pronouns when
   initially interacting with members of the public.

   "DO NOT use 'he, him, she, her' pronouns until you have more
   information about, or provided by, the individual," reads the memo
   obtained by Heritage via Freedom of Information Act (FOIA).

   Oversight Project Director Mike Howell told Fox News Digital in an
   interview Tuesday that the "members of the public" who border patrol
   agents most often interact with are illegal migrants.

   "Border Patrol deals with more illegal aliens than any entity in the
   federal government. This forced language guidance is designed to coddle
   illegal aliens," Howell said.

   THOUSANDS OF CHINESE NATIONALS, GOTAWAYS AT SOUTHERN BORDER SINCE OCT
   1: SOURCES
   A USBP official by a river

   A Border Patrol agent looks over the Rio Grande in Eagle Pass, Texas.
   (Shaul Schwarz / Getty Images / File)

   "I guess it wasn’t enough for the Biden administration to betray the
   Border Patrol by purposefully unleashing chaos on the southern border,"
   Howell said. "Now, the radical political leadership is enrolling agents
   in a forced-speech program to call illegal aliens by their preferred
   pronouns."

   CBP did not respond to Fox News Digital's multiple requests for
   comment.

   The memo encourages agents to use "a universal greeting, such as 'Good
   Morning' or ‘Good Evening’ in the initial greeting."

   "If an incorrect pronoun is used and corrected by the individual,
   acknowledge the oversight and use the correct pronoun," the memo reads.

   It also lists "key terms" with definitions next to each: bisexual, gay,
   gender expression, gender identity, gender non-conforming, intersex,
   lesbian, non-binary, queer, questioning, sex assigned at birth, sexual
   orientation, transgender, transgender woman, transgender man and
   transitioning are all listed.

   NEW ‘ORWELLIAN’ HHS PRONOUN MANDATE FORCES EMPLOYEES TO ‘DENY REALITY,’
   VIOLATE LAW: LEGAL EXPERT
   U.S. Customs and Border Protection patch

   An internal U.S. Customs and Border Protection memo prohibits agents
   from using ‘he, him, she, her’ pronouns when initially interacting with
   members of the public. (Stephanie Bennett / Fox News / File)

   "This job aid provides guidance to all CBP employees who interact with
   members of the public to help facilitate effective communication with
   the diverse public we serve, including individuals who identify as
   lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer or questioning, intersex,
   non-binary, and gender nonconforming (LGBTQI+)," the memo's
   introduction reads, adding that the guidance "should be used by all CBP
   employees."

   It also notes that the terms and definitions "are not universal" and
   that some LGBTQ individuals "may define these terms differently and the
   meanings of the terms may change over time."

   DEMI LOVATO REVEALS WHY USING THEY/THEM PRONOUNS WAS ‘ABSOLUTELY
   EXHAUSTING’
   Migrants in Rio Grande

   Migrants cross the Rio Grande at the U.S.-Mexico border in Piedras
   Negras, Mexico, on Oct. 6, 2023. (Alejandro Cegarra / Bloomberg via
   Getty Images)

   Howell said CBP "should be allowed to do their job and prevent all
   illegal immigration, not used as pawns in some sick social experiment."

   The memo follows an earlier report by Heritage's Oversight Project that
   the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) rolled out a similar
   gender pronoun guideline.

   "All employees should be addressed [by] the names and pronouns they use
   to describe themselves," the reported email to HHS employees stated as
   part of its push for "Gender Identity and Non-Discrimination Guidance,"
   which it says protects "employee rights and protections related to
   gender identity."

   Fox News' Andrew Mark Miller contributed to this report.

   Jamie Joseph is a writer who covers politics. She leads Fox News
   Digital coverage of the Senate.
   Fox News First

   Get the latest updates from the 2024 campaign trail, exclusive
   interviews and more Fox News politics content.
   Arrives Tuesdays
   Subscribe

   Subscribed
   ____________________
   Subscribe

   You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

More from Politics

   RNC launches 'Bank Your Vote' websites in 16 languages across all 50
   states ahead of GOP primaries
   21 mins ago

RNC launches 'Bank Your Vote' websites in 16 languages across all 50 states
ahead of GOP primaries

   United Nations moves to stop Alabama from carrying out America’s first
   nitrogen gas execution
   1 hour ago

United Nations moves to stop Alabama from carrying out America’s first
nitrogen gas execution

   Georgia Republican senator joins race for congressional seat opened by
   Rep. Drew Ferguson's retirement
   1 hour ago

Georgia Republican senator joins race for congressional seat opened by Rep.
Drew Ferguson's retirement

   North Carolina goes all in with DNC in having Biden alone on primary
   ballot, flouting Democrat challengers
   1 hour ago

North Carolina goes all in with DNC in having Biden alone on primary ballot,
flouting Democrat challengers

U.S.

     * Crime
     * Military
     * Education
     * Terror
     * Immigration
     * Economy
     * Personal Freedoms
     * Fox News Investigates

World

     * U.N.
     * Conflicts
     * Terrorism
     * Disasters
     * Global Economy
     * Environment
     * Religion
     * Scandals

Opinion

Politics

     * Executive
     * Senate
     * House
     * Judiciary
     * Foreign Policy
     * Polls
     * Elections

Entertainment

     * Celebrity News
     * Movies
     * TV News
     * Music News
     * Style News
     * Entertainment Video

Business

     * Personal Finance
     * Economy
     * Markets
     * Watchlist
     * Lifestyle
     * Real Estate
     * Tech

Lifestyle

     * Food + Drink
     * Cars + Trucks
     * Travel + Outdoors
     * House + Home
     * Fitness + Well-being
     * Style + Beauty
     * Family
     * Faith

Science

     * Archaeology
     * Air  Space
     * Planet Earth
     * Wild Nature
     * Natural Science
     * Dinosaurs

Tech

     * Security
     * Innovation
     * Drones
     * Computers
     * Video Games
     * Military Tech

Health

     * Coronavirus
     * Healthy Living
     * Medical Research
     * Mental Health
     * Cancer
     * Heart Health
     * Children's Health

TV

     * Shows
     * Personalities
     * Watch Live
     * Full Episodes
     * Show Clips
     * News Clips

About

     * Contact Us
     * Careers
     * Fox Around the World
     * Advertise With Us
     * Media Relations
     * Corporate Information
     * Compliance

Other

     * Fox Business
     * Fox Weather
     * Fox Nation
     * Women's World Cup 2023
     * Fox News Shop
     * Fox News Go
     * Fox News Radio
     * Outkick
     * Newsletters
     * Podcasts
     * Apps  Products

     * Facebook
     * Twitter
     * Instagram
     * Youtube
     * Flipboard
     * LinkedIn
     * Slack
     * RSS
     * Newsletters
     * Spotify
     * iHeartRadio

   Fox News
     * New Terms of Use
     * New Privacy Policy
     * Your Privacy Choices
     * Closed Captioning Policy
     * Help
     * Contact Us
     * Accessibility Statement

   This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or
   redistributed. ©2024 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes
   displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data
   provided by Factset. Powered and implemented by FactSet Digital
   Solutions. Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by
   Refinitiv Lipper.</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-37">
<text>   Skip to main content

     * A
     * B
     * C
     * D
     * E
     * F
     * G
     * H
     * I
     * J
     * K
     * L
     * M
     * N
     * O
     * P
     * R
     * S
     * T
     * U
     * V
     * W

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-TZWKT8

   Kent State University logo
     * Apply
     * Visit
     * Give Now

     * FlashLine Login
     * Calendars
     * Phone Directory
     * Maps  Directions
     * Search

   School of Information
     * Academic Programs
       Close Academic Programs Overview
          + Health Informatics
          + Knowledge Management
          + Library  Information Science
          + School Library Media K-12
          + User Experience
          + Health Informatics Graduate Certificate
          + Knowledge Management Graduate Certificate
          + Admissions
          + Scholarships
     * Careers  Internships
       Close Careers  Internships Overview
          + Share an Opportunity
          + Jobs in the iSchool
          + Job  Internship Board
          + Resources for Students  Alumni
     * Research
       Close Research Overview
          + Reinberger Children's Library Center
          + Research Centers  Facilities
          + Explore Our Work
     * Faculty  Staff
       Close Faculty  Staff Overview
          + Full-Time Faculty
          + Part-Time/Adjunct Faculty
          + Staff
          + Emeriti
     * Alumni
       Close Alumni Overview
          + Alumni Spotlights
          + Alumni Award Winners
          + MLIS Student Achievement Data
          + Health Informatics Student Achievement Data
          + Update Your Information
          + Give to the iSchool
     * About
       Close About Overview
          + Message from the Director
          + Why the iSchool?
          + News  Events
          + Diversity  Inclusion Statement
          + History
          + Mission  Accreditation
          + Location  Facilities
          + Contact Us
          + Advisory Boards

     * FlashLine Login
     * Calendars
     * Phone Directory
     * Maps  Directions
     * Search

     * Apply
     * Visit
     * Give Now

   Menu

Cultural Heritage Informatics

You are here

     * Kent
     * School of Information
     * Cultural Heritage Informatics

   Cultural heritage informatics (CHI) is an emerging field of
   interdisciplinary research and practice concerned with the role of
   information and computing technologies (ICTs) to support the creation,
   capture, organization, and pluralization of culture, in whatever form,
   as heritage.

   Cultural heritage stewardship encompasses numerous allied disciplines
   including archival studies, librarianship, preservation of heritage
   materials, and museum studies. They share a common goal of the
   protection of cultural heritage in all forms, both tangible and
   intangible.

   While there is a focus on existing data, datasets, and metadata and
   ways to link them, CHI also necessarily includes identification and
   exploration into appraisal, data capture, preservation, data
   processing, curation, forensics and reconstruction, visualization,
   documentation, access and discoverability, as well as development of
   innovative technologies to empower and support engagement with ICTs as
   tools for communication and remembering of culture.

Pathways

   Archival Studies | Museum Studies | Special Collections

Archival Studies

   Archivists are information professionals who assess, collect, organize,
   preserve, maintain control over, and provide access to records and
   archives determined to have long-term value. The records maintained by
   an archivist can consist of a variety of analog and digital forms and
   documentary genres, including letters, diaries, logs, various other
   writings, official documents, photographs and other visual materials,
   sound recordings, and moving images. According to archival scholar
   Laura Millar, “these records are kept because they have continuing
   value to the creating agency and to other potential users. They are the
   documentary evidence of past events. They are the facts we use to
   interpret and understand history.” Archival material can be found in
   many institutions and organizations, as well as in personal
   collections, thus archivists work in a wide variety of environments.

   For further information on this area, please consult the advising sheet
   for the Archival Studies pathway.

Museum Studies

   There is no agreed-upon single word to describe all museum workers. For
   lack of that word, here we use museum professional. But this field-wide
   disagreement perhaps arises because there is not one profession, but
   several museal professions that consist of a range of activities
   undertaken in a museum (e.g., collections work, administration, visitor
   services, exhibit design). In this program, we approach the education
   of museum professionals in a holistic way, from a museological
   perspective, that provides education in the whole range of activities,
   skills, and theory about/in museums. This is done in the broader
   context of information science, rather than from a specific content
   area; that is, the framework is from LIS but specific knowledge and
   skills are museum-focused. Students are taught within a broader
   context, one that understands that LIS is about the interaction of
   people and information and this foundation cuts across all types of
   information institutions and information work. The intent of this
   specialization is to embed and integrate the thinking and training
   across information institutions such as libraries, museums, and
   archives. For this reason, there are many pathways a student can take
   that includes museum studies.

   For further information on this area, please consult the advising sheet
   for the Museum Studies pathway.

Special Collections

   In library science, special collections are libraries or library units
   that house materials requiring specialized security and user services.
   Special collections can also be found in archival and museum
   environments, although they may not be described as such. Materials
   housed in special collections can be in any format (including rare
   books, manuscripts, photographs, archives, ephemera, and digital
   records), and are generally characterized by their artifactual or
   monetary value, physical format, uniqueness or rarity, and/or an
   institutional commitment to long-term preservation and access. They can
   also include association with important figures or institutions in
   history, culture, politics, sciences, or the arts. Individual
   libraries, archival institutions, and other cultural heritage
   organizations determine for themselves what materials constitute their
   own special collections.

   For further information on this area, please consult the advising sheet
   for the Special Collections pathway.
     __________________________________________________________________

Faculty Supporting the Cultural Heritage Informatics Area

     * Image
       KC
       Katie Campana, Ph.D.
       Associate Professor
       kcampan2@kent.edu
     * Image
       Rebecca Elder headshot
       Rebecca Elder
       Instructor
       relder8@kent.edu
     * Image
       Karen Gracy
       Karen F. Gracy, Ph.D.
       Professor
       kgracy@kent.edu
     * Image
       Lala Hajibayova
       Lala Hajibayova, Ph.D.
       Associate Professor
       lhajibay@kent.edu
     * Image
       Erin Hetrick headshot
       Erin M. Hetrick
       Instructor
       ehetrick@kent.edu
     * Image
       Athena Salaba headshot
       Athena Salaba, Ph.D.
       Professor
       asalaba@kent.edu
     * Image
       hs
       Heather Soyka, Ph.D.
       Assistant Professor
       hsoyka@kent.edu
     * Image
       Marcia Lei Zeng headshot
       Marcia Lei Zeng, Ph.D.
       Professor
       mzeng@kent.edu

   School of Information

Street Address

   314 University Library, 1125 Risman Drive, Kent, OH 44242-0001

Mailing Address

   800 E. Summit St.
   Kent, OH 44242

Contact Us

   330-672-2782 iSchool@kent.edu
   Facebook
   Twitter
   LinkedIn
   Instagram
   Contact Us
     * 330-672-3000
     * info@kent.edu

   QUICK LINKS
     * Jobs

     * Kent State Kent Campus - linkedin
     * Kent State Kent Campus - snapchat
     * Kent State Kent Campus - pinterest
     * Kent State Kent Campus - facebook
     * Kent State Kent Campus - twitter
     * Kent State Kent Campus - youtube
     * Kent State Kent Campus - instagram
     * ...

   Information
     * Accessibility
     * Annual Security Reports
     * Emergency Information
     * For Our Alumni
     * For the Media
     * Health Services
     * Jobs  Employment
     * Privacy Statement
     * HEERF CARES/CRRSAA/ARP Act Reporting and Disclosure
     * Website Feedback

   Kent State University logo
   © 2024 Kent State University All rights reserved.</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-38">
<text>   #World History Encyclopedia RSS Feed

   [c3po.jpg?hash=583da8995f3bf53448b13ddf790ada6c]

   Membership No ads
   ____________________

     * Encyclopedia
          + Index
          + Timeline
          + Maps
          + Book Reviews
          + Weights  Measures
          + Translations
     * Education
          + Teaching Materials
          + Link Database
          + Quizzes
          + Primary Sources
          + Collections
          + School Subscription
     * Media
          + Media Library
          + Audio Articles
          + Podcast
          + Youtube Channel
     * Contribute
          + Submissions
          + Needed Content
          + Style Guide
          + Terms  Conditions
          + Volunteer
          + Donate
     * Shop
          + Books
          + Map Posters
          + Magazines
          + Wall Charts
          + Clothing
     * About
          + About
          + Our Team
          + Editorial Policy
          + Annual Reports
          + Membership
          + Contact
     * Login
          + Login
          + Register

Information  Communication Technologies in Cultural Heritage  Tourism

Contents

Article

   James Blake Wiener
   by James Blake Wiener
   published on 13 June 2018
   headphones Listen to this article
   X

   Information and communication technologies (ICT) are revolutionizing
   the ways in which the public interacts, understands, and appreciates
   the importance of cultural heritage around the world. They are
   additionally enabling sustainable tourism to flourish in an era of
   unprecedented globalization. In this interview, James Blake Wiener of
   Ancient History Encyclopedia speaks to Professor Lorenzo Cantoni - the
   chair holder of the UNESCO Chair in ICT at the Università della
   Svizzera italiana to develop and promote sustainable tourism in World
   Heritage Sites - about the ways in which ICT is altering how we see the
   past and travel around the world.

   Machu Picchu Aerial View
   Machu Picchu Aerial View
   Dan Merino (CC BY)

   JBW: Professor Cantoni, I bid you a warm welcome to Ancient History
   Encyclopedia (AHE). Please tell us more about UNESCO's ICT Chair at USI
   – Università della Svizzera italiana in Lugano, Switzerland. When was
   it established and what are its general aims? How did you become
   involved in the Chair's genesis?
   Remove Ads
   Advertisement

   LC: I am really happy we can have this conversation!

   The UNESCO Chair in ICT to develop and promote sustainable tourism in
   World Heritage Sites has been established at USI in 2013. But the
   process started earlier, with the preparation of the application
   dossier, its evaluation and approval by UNESCO, up to the agreement
   between UNESCO and USI university. I have been involved since the very
   beginning, together with several young colleagues and with the
   assistance of the Swiss Commission for UNESCO. We believed that the
   extensive experience we got throughout the years doing research and
   development in three related areas – eTourism, eLearning, and ICT4D
   (ICT for Sustainable Development) – could be of interest for UNESCO
   enlisted World Heritage Sites. Hence the proposed Chair, whose goals
   are to conduct extensive research and development activities in the
   field, as well as to do training and to promote knowledge sharing among
   relevant stakeholders.
   Follow us on YouTube!

   Remove Ads
   Advertisement
   Dr Lorenzo Cantoni
   Dr Lorenzo Cantoni
   Dr Lorenzo Cantoni (Copyright)

   JBW: What are the specific programs and initiatives that the ICT Chair
   is currently overseeing? Could you also share with our audience some
   further details about the 2018 Summer School of the UNESCO chair in
   ICT, which will be held at the University of Turku, in Finland?

   LC: At the UNESCO Chair in USI we do research and development
   activities, involving Master and PhD students from USI, as well as
   several visiting scholars who join us from all over the world.
   Remove Ads
   Advertisement

   Several educational and training activities are also organized: regular
   courses at USI's Master in International Tourism and a Summer School
   organized every year in a different place. In 2018 we have partnered
   with the University of Turku, in Finland, to run a very innovative
   travelling Summer School: we will visit five World Heritage Sites and
   two UNESCO Biosphere Reserves in the southern part of Finland,
   co-creating with local stakeholders technical solutions in line with
   our mission: to orchestrate ICT in order to support and promote
   sustainable tourism in World Heritage Sites (we are still accepting
   late applications and it is possible also to participate online).

   Besides face to face training activities, we are leveraging on ICT to
   offer online training. In particular, we have launched the first ever
   MOOC – Massive Open Online Course – titled “eTourism: Communication
   Perspectives” (with more than 8,000 learners), and recently, as part of
   the activities of the UNESCO-UNITWIN Network “Culture, Tourism, and
   Development”, led by Paris 1 Panthéon-Sorbonne University, the MOOC
   “Tourism Management of UNESCO World Heritage Sites”. This MOOC will
   remain open until the end of 2018 and has attracted so far about 5,000
   learners from 159 countries.

   JBW: What is “sustainable tourism” and how can it improve the public's
   awareness and understanding of cultural heritage, Professor Cantoni?
   Remove Ads
   Advertisement

   LC: The term “sustainable” suggests that something should be kept
   available not only for our generation but also for the future ones –
   this is the very meaning of its French equivalent: “durable” –
   something that lasts.

   If we think of Tourism and Heritage, we can refer to three areas of
   sustainability: environmental, economic, and socio-cultural.

   Environmental/ecological sustainability refers to the fact that
   tourists should not damage the natural resources. They should avoid
   behaviors that create excessive pollution or irreversible damage to the
   biodiversity. In some critical areas, in order not to exceed the
   carrying capacity of a place, quotas might be applied.
   Tourists should not damage the natural resources. They should avoid
   behaviors that create excessive pollution or irreversible damage to the
   biodiversity.

   Economic sustainability refers to the fact that tourism players, and in
   general the local populations, should be able to make a reasonable
   profit out of the tourism-related activities. In general, we know that
   most of the tourism/hospitality enterprises are micro, small, and
   medium ones, frequently small family businesses. They are very
   resilient and tend to look after the place and its correct management
   also for the future generations. Companies focused only on making huge
   profits might be less sustainable and might start and end activities
   only based on short-term fluctuations, or be less interested in sharing
   the profits with workers and the community at large. For instance, a
   company might build and operate a hotel, and then leave the building
   empty as soon as the business becomes not profitable, or less
   profitable than in other places.
   Remove Ads
   Advertisement

   Socio-cultural sustainability refers to the fact that tourism is, by
   nature, based on hosting people from outside a community – be they from
   the same country (domestic tourism), or from other countries
   (international tourism). It is very important that visitors do not
   damage the quality of life of locals, nor their lifestyles and peculiar
   traditions. We have studied, for instance, the case of Lalibela, a
   World Heritage Site in Ethiopia. It consists of eleven medieval
   monolithic cave churches of the 13th century CE, still actively used as
   places of worship by Christian Copts. Tourists cannot, and should not
   disturb or disrupt the life of the monks and of the local communities
   living there and looking after such property. In fact, what we look for
   in cultural tourism – and in tourism in general – is authentic
   experiences: if tourism destroys or deeply alters life at a
   destination, what remains is a kind of “fake copy”, something we
   usually refer to as “Disneyfication”.

   St. George, Rock-hewn Church
   St. George, Rock-hewn Church
   Rod Waddington (CC BY-SA)

   Analogous situations can be found in places experiencing the so-called
   “overtourism”. Their tourists do not bring the usual economic and
   social benefits any longer; on the contrary, they put the very quality
   of locals' life at risk.

   JBW: In your own words, how do media, technology, tourism, and cultural
   heritage intersect? Which technologies do you believe will play a
   commanding role in safeguarding cultural heritage and promoting
   sustainable tourism in the future?
   Love History?

   Sign up for our free weekly email newsletter!
   ____________________ Sign Up
   ____________________

   LC: In the UNESCO Chair in Lugano we have proposed the “ABCDE”
   framework, which refers to five main areas of relevance: Access,
   Better, Connect, Dis-intermediate, and Educate.
     * Access: ICT can offer endless opportunities to provide good quality
       information about heritage sites, through websites, videos, social
       media, mobile apps, and the like. Definitely, AHE is a major player
       in this area, providing extensive information about so many places
       and their historical relevance.
     * Better: once the travelers reach the destination, they can make the
       best of it thanks to mobile apps (so-called Location Based
       Services), augmented reality, gamification applications, etc. For
       instance, when it comes to archeological sites, augmented reality
       can help the visitor to better understand how the place might have
       looked like. But it can also be used to recognize trees and animals
       or to better interpret paintings in a museum, just to mention some
       other applications. Angkor Wat, Cambodia
       Angkor Wat, Cambodia
       Dennis Jarvis (CC BY-SA)
     * Connect: ICT can help to connect the three main players in this
       relationship: locals, visitors, and the heritage itself. For
       instance, we assisted RETOSA, the Regional Tourism Organisation of
       Southern Africa, developing an offline/online digital game to help
       the young generations to know more about the World Heritage Sites
       of the 15 countries of the Southern African Development Community
       (SADC) and to reflect on how sustainable tourism might be a major
       component of local development. Nowadays such a tool has become an
       app everyone can use. In fact, for the first time ever, the United
       Nations named 2017 as the International Year of Sustainable Tourism
       for Development. We should think of ICT not only as tools to spread
       voices, to speak aloud, but also – I would say: first of all – as
       tools to listen to what travelers are sharing about their
       experience at a destination. ICT enables us to have much deeper
       insights into travelers' experiences, expectations, satisfaction
       (or not). We are then in a better position to improve or redesign
       touristic offers.
     * Dis-intermediate: as I mentioned above, in order to be sustainable,
       tourism should bring a reasonable profit to the local communities.
       In some regions of the Global South, there is a risk that
       international visitors pay most of their travel money to travel
       operators located outside of the destination country. Thanks to
       ICT, some relationships between prospect travelers and players at
       the destination can be dis-intermediated so that the destination
       itself benefits from most of the money spent. For instance, we
       partnered with local players in the Island of Mozambique – a World
       Heritage Site – to develop their online presence: a super simple
       website listing local BBs and their telephone numbers. After a few
       years, more than 60% of the bookings to such BBs are done directly
       and not through external tour operators/travel agents. Island of
       Mozambique
       Island of Mozambique
       Stig Nygaard (CC BY)
     * Educate: ICT can also be used to help tourism players to learn and
       upskill, especially in such a fast-moving context. In fact, due to
       the very nature of hospitality and tourism, many operators cannot
       afford to attend regular courses, hence the need for more flexible
       learning offers. Here, free online courses like the MOOC I already
       mentioned above can make the difference.

   If you want to see a summary of the ABCDE framework, you can refer to
   this short 90-seconds animation video.

   JBW: Could you share further information about the #faces4heritage
   campaign? How and when was this initiative started, and what are its
   aims? I believe that the #faces4heritage campaign has been active for
   several years if I am not mistaken.

   LC: Right, happy to share something about this initiative. In 2015,
   UNESCO launched the global #Unite4Heritage campaign, aimed at raising
   awareness about the destruction of heritage done by violent extremists,
   e.g. in Syria and Iraq, but also in Lybia, Mali, and elsewhere. At the
   chair, we wanted to support such a campaign and developed
   #faces4heritage, an online tool that enables you to combine half of
   your face with half of the face of a destroyed statue. The created
   image can then be used as your profile picture on social media so that
   your friends/followers are invited to reflect on such a dramatic issue.
   #faces4heritage has been and is still very active on Twitter, being
   among the most used hashtags in combination with #Unite4Heritage.

   Palmyra, Syria
   Palmyra, Syria
   Erik Hermans (CC BY-NC-SA)

   JBW: Professor Cantoni, how can the average citizen become more
   involved in the processes of preservation and valorization with regard
   to cultural heritage? Do you have any specific recommendations or
   personal suggestions?

   LC: Just a couple of recommendations and a further reflection. First of
   all, I would definitely recommend to prepare yourself before the trip;
   AHE and other resources will definitely help. Additionally, try to have
   meaningful interactions with local people and to buy/use local products
   as much as possible. In general, invest more in quality than in
   quantity: visiting a place should not be just aimed at adding it to our
   “visited list” but to deeply understand its nature, history, and
   culture.

   Athens Acropolis
   Athens Acropolis
   Mark Cartwright (CC BY-NC-SA)

   Readers of AHE might find it useful to reflect on the very origin of
   the word 'culture', which comes from the ancient Latin Language. Its
   root is the verb 'colo', meaning 'look after', 'care'. It had three
   main areas of application.

   The first one is looking after our natural environment: 'agriculture'
   (which means cultivating the fields). While visiting a place we should
   pay attention to the way locals interact with their environment,
   including their local ingredients and cuisine.

   The second one is cultivating ourselves as human beings: what we
   usually refer to as 'culture'. Think of the way we inhabit places from
   architecture and urban planning to the way we dress and behave, the
   schooling systems, all visual and performative arts, socio-political
   systems, and so on. By the way, thinking of Latin again, 'habitus'
   coming from the verb 'habeo' (to have) is closely connected with living
   places ('habitare': living), fashion and costumes ('habitus': garment),
   as well as ways of living ('habitus': habit).

   The third area is the way we cultivate our relationship with God:
   'cult', religion.

   All of those dimensions should be considered by a responsible and
   sustainable traveler. A well-traveled person, I would say.

   JBW: Professor Cantoni, I thank you so much for your time and
   consideration. I can speak on behalf of all my colleagues at AHE and
   say that we are looking forward to cementing a proactive and vigorous
   relationship with you and everyone associated with UNESCO's ICT Chair
   at the Università della Svizzera italiana.

   LC: I am also very much looking forward to a fruitful collaboration
   with AHE and its community!

   Ancient History Encyclopedia is delighted to announce that the
   publication of this interview coincides with the formation of a new
   partnership with the UNESCO Chair in ICT at the Università della
   Svizzera italiana to develop and promote sustainable tourism in World
   Heritage Sites.

   Dr Lorenzo Cantoni
   Dr Lorenzo Cantoni
   Dr Lorenzo Cantoni (Copyright)

   Dr. Lorenzo Cantoni graduated in Philosophy and holds a PhD in
   Education and Linguistics. He is a full professor at USI - Universit</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-39">
<text>   #PDF Full-Text HTML Full-Text XML Full-Text MDPI Publishing - Latest
   articles

   Next Article in Journal
   Topological Data Analysis Helps to Improve Accuracy of Deep Learning
   Models for Fake News Detection Trained on Very Small Training Sets
   Next Article in Special Issue
   ACUX Recommender: A Mobile Recommendation System for Multi-Profile
   Cultural Visitors Based on Visiting Preferences Classification

   Previous Article in Journal
   Lightweight AI Framework for Industry 4.0 Case Study: Water Meter
   Recognition
   Previous Article in Special Issue
   Networks and Stories. Analyzing the Transmission of the Feminist
   Intangible Cultural Heritage on Twitter

Journals

   Active Journals Find a Journal Proceedings Series

Topics

Information

   For Authors For Reviewers For Editors For Librarians For Publishers For
   Societies For Conference Organizers
   Open Access Policy Institutional Open Access Program Special Issues
   Guidelines Editorial Process Research and Publication Ethics Article
   Processing Charges Awards Testimonials

Author Services

Initiatives

   Sciforum MDPI Books Preprints.org Scilit SciProfiles Encyclopedia JAMS
   Proceedings Series

About

   Overview Contact Careers News Press Blog
   Sign In / Sign Up

Notice

   You can make submissions to other journals here.
   clear

Notice

   You are accessing a machine-readable page. In order to be
   human-readable, please install an RSS reader.
   Continue Cancel
   clear

   All articles published by MDPI are made immediately available worldwide
   under an open access license. No special permission is required to
   reuse all or part of the article published by MDPI, including figures
   and tables. For articles published under an open access Creative Common
   CC BY license, any part of the article may be reused without permission
   provided that the original article is clearly cited. For more
   information, please refer to https://www.mdpi.com/openaccess.

   Feature papers represent the most advanced research with significant
   potential for high impact in the field. A Feature Paper should be a
   substantial original Article that involves several techniques or
   approaches, provides an outlook for future research directions and
   describes possible research applications.

   Feature papers are submitted upon individual invitation or
   recommendation by the scientific editors and must receive positive
   feedback from the reviewers.

   Editor’s Choice articles are based on recommendations by the scientific
   editors of MDPI journals from around the world. Editors select a small
   number of articles recently published in the journal that they believe
   will be particularly interesting to readers, or important in the
   respective research area. The aim is to provide a snapshot of some of
   the most exciting work published in the various research areas of the
   journal.

   You seem to have javascript disabled. Please note that many of the page
   functionalities won't work as expected without javascript enabled.

   MDPI Open Access Journals
   clear zoom_out_map search menu

   MDPI Open Access Journals
     * Journals
          +
               o Active Journals
               o Find a Journal
               o Proceedings Series
     * Topics
     * Information
          +
               o For Authors
               o For Reviewers
               o For Editors
               o For Librarians
               o For Publishers
               o For Societies
               o For Conference Organizers
               o Open Access Policy
               o Institutional Open Access Program
               o Special Issues Guidelines
               o Editorial Process
               o Research and Publication Ethics
               o Article Processing Charges
               o Awards
               o Testimonials
     * Author Services
     * Initiatives
          +
               o Sciforum
               o MDPI Books
               o Preprints.org
               o Scilit
               o SciProfiles
               o Encyclopedia
               o JAMS
               o Proceedings Series
     * About
          +
               o Overview
               o Contact
               o Careers
               o News
               o Press
               o Blog

   Sign In / Sign Up Submit


   Search for Articles:
   Title / Keyword
   ____________________
   Author / Affiliation / Email
   ____________________
   Journal
   [Big Data and Cognitive Computing (BDCC)_______________________________
   _____...]
   Article Type
   [All Article Types....]

   Search

   Advanced Search

   Section
   []
   Special Issue
   []
   Volume
   ____________________
   Issue
   ____________________
   Number
   ____________________
   Page
   ____________________

   Logical OperatorOperator
   [AND]
   Search Text
   ____________________
   Search Type
   [All fields..]

   add_circle_outline
   remove_circle_outline

   Search

   Journals
   BDCC
   Volume 6
   Issue 3
   10.3390/bdcc6030073
   BDCC-logo
   Submit to this Journal Review for this Journal Propose a Special Issue
   ► ▼ Article Menu

Article Menu

     * Academic Editor
       [unknown-user.png?1704362327] Fabrizio Marozzo
     * Subscribe SciFeed
     * Recommended Articles
     * Related Info Link
          + Google Scholar
     * More by Authors Links
          + on DOAJ
               o Poulopoulos, V.
               o
               o Wallace, M.
               o
          + on Google Scholar
               o Poulopoulos, V.
               o
               o Wallace, M.
               o
          + on PubMed
               o Poulopoulos, V.
               o
               o Wallace, M.
               o

   /ajax/scifeed/subscribe
   Article Views
   Citations -
     * Table of Contents

   Altmetric share Share announcement Help format_quote Cite
   question_answer Discuss in SciProfiles thumb_up
   ...
   Endorse textsms
   ...
   Comment

Need Help?

Support

   Find support for a specific problem in the support section of our
   website.
   Get Support

Feedback

   Please let us know what you think of our products and services.
   Give Feedback

Information

   Visit our dedicated information section to learn more about MDPI.
   Get Information
   clear

JSmol Viewer

   clear
   first_page
   Download PDF
   settings
   Order Article Reprints
   Font Type:
   Arial Georgia Verdana
   Font Size:
   Aa Aa Aa
   Line Spacing:
     
   Column Width:
     
   Background:

   Open AccessEditor’s ChoiceArticle

Digital Technologies and the Role of Data in Cultural Heritage: The Past, the
Present, and the Future

   by
   [633c33598fc35editor_63352.png] Vassilis Poulopoulos
   [633c33598fc35editor_63352.png] Vassilis Poulopoulos
   Scilit Preprints.org Google Scholar
   View Publications
   ^*,†^ ORCID and
   [628f185a16f99coffee.jpg] Manolis Wallace
   [628f185a16f99coffee.jpg] Manolis Wallace
   Scilit Preprints.org Google Scholar
   View Publications
   ^†^ ORCID
   Knowledge and Uncertainty Research Laboratory, University of the
   Peloponnese, 221 31 Tripolis, Greece
   ^*
   Author to whom correspondence should be addressed.
   ^</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-4">
<text>   #Connecting Directors » Feed Connecting Directors » 2021: A Most
   Successful Year for Heritage Family Comments Feed

Get The Latest Articles In Your Inbox Daily

   ____________________
   ____________________
   Subscribe

   [cd-logo.png]

     * Home
     * News
          + Cremation
          + Green Funerals
          + Grief  Loss
          + Funeral Industry Press Releases
     * Lighter Side
     * Marketing
          + Social Media
          + Customer Service
     * Jobs
     * About Us
          + Advertise With Us
          + Contact Us
          + Speaking
          + Social Media Marketing for Funeral Homes
          + Privacy Policy
     * The Daily Hearse

   ____________________

Connecting Directors

   ____________________

     * Home
     * News
          + Cremation
          + Green Funerals
          + Grief  Loss
          + Funeral Industry Press Releases
     * Lighter Side
     * Marketing
          + Social Media
          + Customer Service
     * Jobs
     * About Us
          + Advertise With Us
          + Contact Us
          + Speaking
          + Social Media Marketing for Funeral Homes
          + Privacy Policy
     * The Daily Hearse

   ____________________
     * Home
     * News
          + Cremation
          + Green Funerals
          + Grief  Loss
          + Funeral Industry Press Releases
     * Lighter Side
     * Marketing
          + Social Media
          + Customer Service
     * Jobs
     * About Us
          + Advertise With Us
          + Contact Us
          + Speaking
          + Social Media Marketing for Funeral Homes
          + Privacy Policy
     * The Daily Hearse

2021: A Most Successful Year for Heritage Family

   Funeral Industry News Funeral Industry Press Releases February 7, 2022
   Heritage Family Logo
   CDFuneralNews CDFuneralNews CDFuneralNews

   We believe that every funeral director should have the tools to
   succeed. With the help of our field-leading partners, we publish daily
   funeral industry news and provide free tools to help our readers
   advance their careers and grow their businesses. Our editorial focus on
   the future, covering impact-conscious funeral care, trends, tech,
   marketing, and exploring how today's funeral news affects your future.

   IFRAME:
   https://www.facebook.com/plugins/share_button.php?href=https%3A%2F%2Fco
   nnectingdirectors.com%2F62704-heritage-family-2021layout=button_count
   size=smallwidth=88height=20appId

   Tweet
                     ___________________________________

2021: A Most Successful Year for Heritage Family

   Heritage Family of Elizabethton, Tennessee completed its most
   successful year in the history of the company in 2021.

   Richard Tetrick of Heritage Family stated, “2021 was the most
   successful year in the history of our company.  Not only did we serve
   more families than any year before 2021, we entered or expanded our
   presence in seven different strategic markets with the addition of 27
   locations.  In 2021 we added 20 new funeral homes, four affordable
   cremation facilities, two cemeteries and one pet cremation business.
   We are extremely proud to be associated with these additional high
   quality partners for Heritage.  We are equally proud of our at-need and
   pre-need staff who continually went the extra mile to serve families in
   this pandemic environment.”

   March of 2021 saw the company expanding its operation in the Cleveland
   OH market with the addition of Bodnar-Mahoney Funeral Home and All-Ohio
   Cremation Burial and Cremation Society.

   In July, the Craig Kempf Funeral Homes with four locations in the
   Battle Creek, MI  area became members of the Heritage Family.

   The company entered the Louisville, KY market in August with the
   purchase of the well-respected Pearson Funeral Home.

   In September Heritage Family expanded its presence in the Tri-Cities,
   Tennessee region with the addition of the Akard Funeral Home in
   Bristol, TN.  The Akard acquisition compliments our two other funeral
   homes in the Bristol market, as well as our fifteen other properties in
   the Tri-Cities area.

   September also saw the company expanding its presence in the high
   growth metropolitan Atlanta area with purchase of the Cannon Cleveland
   Funeral Directors, Southern Crescent Crematorium and Companion Care
   Cremation Services in McDonough, GA.

   The company entered the Omaha, NE market in December of 2021 with the
   addition of the four locations of John A Gentleman Mortuaries, a
   leading funeral home company in Omaha and also the Arbor Cremation
   Society of Omaha.

   Brentwood Funeral Services of Memphis, TN became a member of Heritage
   Family in December of 2021.  Brentwood consisted of seven funeral homes
   in the Memphis metro area, two cemeteries and a mortuary service
   company in Jackson, MS.

   The company plans to continue its growth in 2022 by acquisition as well
   as organic growth.  At the present time the company has letters of
   intent to acquire seven funeral homes and one cremation business with
   the transactions closing in the first and second quarters of 2022.
   Heritage Family anticipates serving over 14,000 families through its’
   existing funeral homes and cemeteries in 2022.

   Heritage Family operates in ten states with 69 locations consisting of
   52 funeral homes, ten cemeteries, five low-cost cremation facilities
   and two pet cremation businesses.

   For information about joining Heritage Family, contact Richard Tetrick,
   (423) 512-1111 or richard@heritagefamily.com.
   Heritage Family

   IFRAME:
   https://www.facebook.com/plugins/share_button.php?href=https%3A%2F%2Fco
   nnectingdirectors.com%2F62704-heritage-family-2021layout=button_count
   size=smallwidth=88height=20appId

   Tweet
   Deathcare Football Bowl Game

If Deathcare Sponsored College Bowl Games

   Patricia Hartley January 3, 2024
   Pierce Colleges

Pierce Colleges of Funeral Service Names Joseph Finocchiaro Chief Executive
Officer and President

   CDFuneralNews January 2, 2024
   4M 119

Horse Plumes  Marjorie’s Misinformation | 4M #119

   Patricia Hartley January 1, 2024
   (BUTTON) Load Comments (0)

Get Daily Email Updates

   ____________________
   ____________________
   (Subscribe) Subscribe

   IFRAME:
   https://www.youtube.com/embed/D2sNQj4C83Y?version=3rel=1showsearch=0
   showinfo=1iv_load_policy=1fs=1hl=en-USautohide=2wmode=transparent

Electric Vehicles Impact Funeral Homes?

Latest posts

   Deathcare Football Bowl Game

If Deathcare Sponsored College Bowl Games

   Pierce Colleges

Pierce Colleges of Funeral Service Names Joseph Finocchiaro Chief Executive
Officer and President

   4M 119

Horse Plumes  Marjorie’s Misinformation | 4M #119

   IFRAME:
   https://www.deathcarejobs.com/widget/jobs?w%5Bhide_page_title%5D=1

   Copyright ©2024 Connecting Directors

   [tr?id=1811033249001641ev=PageViewnoscript=1]</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-40">
<text>   #FISH » Feed FISH » Comments Feed alternate alternate alternate

FISH

Forum on Information Standards in Heritage

   (BUTTON) Menu Skip to content
     * News
     * About
     * MIDAS Heritage
          + Other Guidance
          + FISH Toolkit
     * Terminology
          + FISH Vocabularies
          + Submit a Candidate Term
          + Other Terminology Resources
          + Chronology
     * Heritage Information
     * FISH-HEIRNET
     * Working Groups
     * Development
     * glossary

   Search for: ____________________ Search

About

   Membership  current member organizations

   Welcome to the Forum on Information Standards in Heritage (FISH). This
   site presents the work of the forum and contains links to recommended
   information resources that support best practice in recording cultural
   heritage.

   We hope the site will give you an overview of the different
   documentation guidance and indexing tools available and used by our
   members. Please help us keep the website current and update us on
   any additional or future resources, initiatives and conferences.

   FISH logo in the shape of a green fish.

   The forum is guided by the FAIR principles for data management and
   stewardship. This seeks to make data Findable, Accessible,
   Interoperable and Reusable. For more information on the FAIR
   principles, please visit their website:

   https://www.go-fair.org/fair-principles/

Become a member

   Membership is free. Join by subscribing to the FISH Mailing List and
   participate in our forum discussions where all meeting papers and
   presentations are also made available. To join, go to JISCMail and
   select one of the three methods on how to
   subscribe: https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/help/subscribers/groupsubscriptio
   ns.html

   Link to FISH JISCMAIL

   Forum meetings are held twice a year, to discuss strategic and
   technical issues and developments. The meetings combine the efforts of
   both FISH and HEIRNET (Historic Environment Information Resources
   Network), two organisations with similar interests and aims.

   A smaller Terminology Working Group also meets regularly, to discuss
   vocabulary issues and candidate terms for the collection of thesauri
   and authority files produced by or on behalf of FISH.

   FISH was established in 1998 as a non for profit organization. We are a
   formally convened group with terms of reference and a national profile.
   FISH is not a legal entity and we have no employed staff, income or
   budget. There are currently over 400 members.

   Download Terms of Reference (2001)

CBA / Council for British Archaeology logo     ADS / Archaeology Data Service
logo        Britiish-Museum-Logo                      Cadw logo
Heritage-England-Logo RCAHMW new logo
ALGAO logo       HES logo       dyfedarch logo          National Trust logo
         national museum wales logo        Logo01-blue+CPAT_2094x2907

Current member organisations

     * Archaeology Data Service (ADS)
     * Association of Local Government Archaeological Officers (ALGAO)
     * British Museum
     * Cadw (Wales)
     * Clwyd-Powys Archaeological Trust
     * Council for British Archaeology (CBA)
     * Dyfed Archaeological Trust
     * Historic England
     * Historic Environment Scotland
     * Local government Historic Environment Records (HERs)
     * National Museum Wales
     * National Trust
     * Royal Commission on the Ancient and Historical Monuments of Wales
       (RCAHMW)

   Many organisations have helped develop FISH products of the years, some
   of these include British  Irish Archaeological Bibliography
   (BIAB), Manx National Heritage, Museum of London, the National
   Archives, Northern Ireland Environment and Heritage Service, the
   Portable Antiquities Scheme and the Victoria  Albert Museum.

SMR Forum Scotland SMR Forum Scotland logo

   For more information on Scottish heritage, please visit the HER Forum
   Scotland website. Like FISH, The SMR Forum enables its members to keep
   in touch with the latest developments and opportunities within the
   historic environment sector, and to develop a coordinated national
   approach. Member organizations include Historic Environment Scotland,
   the National Trust for Scotland, local authority Historic Environment
   Records (HERs) and Sites and Monuments Records (SMRs), and others.


   Banner image: Whitby Abbey © Paul Adams.

Contact FISH via

   terminologies@HistoricEngland.org.uk

Search the website

   Search for: ____________________ Search

Recent Posts

     * FISH Vocabularies page November 22, 2023
     * FISH Thesauri Version 26 Released April 27, 2023
     * CAA 2020 Conference – 14th to 17th April 2020, Oxford January 21,
       2020

Archives

   Archives [Select Month__]

Recent Comments

   Proudly powered by WordPress</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-41">
<text>   Skip to main content

   (BUTTON) Toggle navigation
     * ESPON 2030
          +
               o ESPON 2030 Programme
               o
          +
               o ESPON 2030
               o ESPON 2030 Programme
               o Previous Programmes
               o ESPON 2020
               o ESPON 2013
               o ESPON 2006
          +
               o Thematic Action Plans
               o Climate Neutral Territories
               o Governance of New Geographies
               o Places Resilient to Crises
               o Perspectives for All People and Places
          +
               o
               o Living, Working and Travelling Across Borders
               o Smart Connectivity
               o European Territories in Global Interactions
               o Adapting to the Impacts of Climate Change
     * What's New
          +
               o News  Events
               o
          +
               o News
               o Latest News
               o ESPON Blog
               o
               o Newsletter Subscribe
               o
               o Publications
               o
                    #

Working paper and Policy brief: Territorial perspective on green
industrialisation
                      October 19, 2023
                    #

Functional rural areas in Romania
                      January 12, 2023
          +
               o Events
               o Seminars
               o Workshops
               o ESPON at Events
               o
               o Case Studies
               o
                    #

MSP-LSI in Estonia
                      October 14, 2022
                    #

MSP-LSI–on demand service for Luxembourg
                      September 27, 2022
          +
               o Press
               o Press Releases
               o Press Clippings
               o
               o Stay Connected
               o   Facebook
               o   Twitter
               o   LinkedIn
               o   YouTube
               o  RSS Feed
          +
               o Spotlight
               o  Spatial implications of climate change risk in Europe
               o [climate%20adaptation.jpg]
                 World leaders at the COP 28 climate summit reached an
                 agreement that could speed up the tra
               o more »
     * Tools  Maps
     * Participate
          +
               o Participate
               o
          +
               o Calls
               o Public Procurement FAQ
               o Open Calls
               o Pre-Announcements
               o Previous Calls
               o e-Tendering Platform
               o List of Contractors
          +
               o Vacancies
               o Vacancies
               o Previous Vacancies
               o Opportunities for Students
               o
               o Invitations for Stakeholders
               o
               o Consultations
          +
               o Spotlight
               o  Open invitation to submit proposals for Targeted
                 Analyses - 3rd cut off date
               o [to%20the%20target.jpg]
                 We are pleased to announce the third cut-off date for the
                 submission of proposals for Targeted Analyses for the
                 ESPON Programme 2030: 29 March 2024
               o more »
     * In your Country
          +
               o In your Country
               o
          +
               o
                    # Austria flag  Austria
                    # Belgium flag  Belgium
                    # Bulgaria flag  Bulgaria
                    # Croatia flag  Croatia
                    # Cyprus flag  Cyprus
                    # Czech Republic flag  Czech Republic
                    # Denmark flag  Denmark
                    # Estonia flag  Estonia
                    # Finland flag  Finland
                    # France flag  France
                    # Germany flag  Germany
                    # Greece flag  Greece
                    # Hungary flag  Hungary
                    # Ireland flag  Ireland
                    # Italy flag  Italy
                    # Latvia flag  Latvia
                    # Lithuania flag  Lithuania
                    # Luxembourg flag  Luxembourg
                    # Malta flag  Malta
                    # Netherlands flag  Netherlands
                    # Poland flag  Poland
                    # Portugal flag  Portugal
                    # Romania flag  Romania
                    # Slovakia flag  Slovakia
                    # Slovenia flag  Slovenia
                    # Spain flag  Spain
                    # Sweden flag  Sweden
               o
               o
                    # Iceland flag  Iceland
                    # Liechtenstein flag  Liechtenstein
                    # Norway flag  Norway
                    # Switzerland flag  Switzerland
               o
     * [search-icon.png]

Targeted Analyses

    1. Home
    2. Projects
    3. ESPON 2020
    4. Targeted Analyses
    5. 9-Material Cultural Heritage- HERITAGE

HERITAGE - The Material Cultural Heritage as a Strategic Territorial
Development Resource: Mapping Impacts Through a Set of Common European
Socio-economic Indicators

   IFRAME: //www.youtube.com/embed/1BYiYroo8mU

   Theme: cultural heritage, territorial impact, indicators, monitoring
   and evaluation

Scope

   The service shall attempt to quantify the contribution (impact) of
   material cultural heritage to economical development in the stakeholder
   countries and regions over the past 5 years. Building on the work done
   by the European Heritage Heads Forum’s Economic Task Force and the
   European Commission, this research activity will define a list of
   economic sectors on which the material cultural heritage has an impact
   and perform data collection on the selected impact indicators.

   The main outcome should be a common theoretical framework, defining the
   most important economic sectors on which the material cultural heritage
   has an impact and developing the empirical evidence of such impact.
   This research activity will also develop a blueprint or in other words
   a step-by-step plan on how to build a monitoring system in the
   stakeholder countries that includes all actions necessary to obtain and
   maintain data for the defined impact indicators in the future.

   This study is named as one of the key studies by the “European
   Framework for Action on Cultural Heritage” (adopted by the European
   Commission in December 2018). Economic statistics and indicators
   produced will be useful for understanding the economic contribution of
   the material cultural heritage. Overall the results will promote
   evidence-based decision making related to protection and promotion of
   material cultural heritage.

Main outcomes

     * A common theoretical framework defining the economic sectors on
       which material cultural heritage has an impact.
     * A common methodological framework describing how to determine the
       impact material cultural heritage has on these economic sectors.
     * Evidence (collected data and set of indicators) on the economic
       impact of cultural heritage in stakeholder territories / regions
       over the past 5 years (for example e.g. cultural heritage-related
       gross value added in tourism, construction, etc.).
     * Step-by-step plan on how to develop a monitoring system (at the
       territorial level) to be used in the stakeholder countries, that
       includes all actions necessary to obtain data of the defined
       socio-economic impact indicators, building time series and checking
       and reporting the status of the indicators on a regular basis. It
       should also include an operational description of the data
       generating and reporting procedures
     *

Stakeholders

     * Norwegian Directorate for Cultural Heritage (lead stakeholder)
     * Brussels Capital region (Heritage Department)
     * Flanders Heritage Agency
     * Swedish National Heritage Board
     * Cultural Heritage Agency of the Netherlands
     * European Council of Spatial Planners
     * Romanian Ministry of Culture and National Identity
     * Monuments Board of the Slovak Republic
     * Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage of Slovenia
     * Austrian Federal office for Cultural Heritage

Observer

   European Commission, Directorate-General for Education, Youth, Sport
   and Culture

Contractors

     * Valdani Vicari  Associati: IT (lead contractor)
     * KEA European Affairs, BE

   Budget: € 214.600,00

   Lifetime: April 2018 – July 2019

Deliveries

     * Inception delivery, 11 June 2018
     * Interim delivery, 13 August 2018
     * Draft Final delivery, 5 February 2019
     * Final delivery, 31 July 2019

   Contact: Zintis Hermansons (Project Expert) [email protected], Johannes
   Kiersch (Financial Expert) [email protected]

Documents

   [3d5d96f1223095588c8040298496a93e.jpg]

Societal value of cultural heritage in Iceland.pdf

     * Acrobat Document | 978KB

   (BUTTON) Preview
   [116730e1d59f46e52fec412af17c7d69.jpg]

HERITAGE_Synthesis Report

     * Acrobat Document | 707KB

   (BUTTON) Preview
   [a1b024577034f20b3f2fa909d41f4c95.jpg]

HERITAGE_Main Report

     * Acrobat Document | 3.03MB

   (BUTTON) Preview
   [346973567aa3901161dbee702928c15a.jpg]

HERITAGE_Scientific Annex

     * Acrobat Document | 1.91MB

   (BUTTON) Preview

Targeted Analyses

     * Policy themes
     * Applied Research
     * Targeted Analyses

     * ***ESPON Cross-border Public Services 2.0 (CPS 2.0)
     * 1-Regional Strategies for Sustainable and Inclusive Territorial
       Development - ReSSI
     * 2-Thinking and Planning in Areas of Territorial Cooperation -
       ACTAREA
     * 3-Spatial Dynamics and Strategic Planning in Metropolitan Areas -
       SPIMA
     * 4-Linking Networks of Protected Areas to Territorial Development -
       LinkPas
     * 5-Territorial and Urban Potentials Connected to Migration and
       Refugee Flows - MIGRATUP
     * 6-Territorial Scenarios for the Baltic Sea Region - BT2050
     * 7-Common spatial perspectives for the Alpine area - Alps 2050
     * 8-Future Digital Health - eHEALTH
     * 9-Material Cultural Heritage- HERITAGE
     * 10-Cross-border Public Services - CPS
     * 11-Cross-Border Cooperation - TIA CBC
     * 12-Maritime spatial planning - MSP LSI
     * 13-BIG DATA
     * 14-Urban-rural connections in non-metropolitan areas - URRUC
     * 15-EuropeaN Sustainable Urbanisation through port city REgeneration
       - ENSURE
     * 16-Adapting European Cities to Population Ageing: Policy Challenges
       and Best Practices - ACPA
     * 17-SHARING – Stocktaking and assessment of typologies of Urban
       Circular Collaborative Economy initiatives
     * 18-MISTA – Metropolitan Industrial Strategies  Economic Sprawl
     * 19-TOURISM - Carrying capacity methodology for tourism
     * 20-BusDev - Business Development Opportunities at External EU
       Borders
     * 21- ERMES - ESPON European Research for Maritime Eco(nomic)clusters
       governance Strategy
     * 22-IMAGINE - Developing a metropolitan-regional imaginary in
       Milan-Bologna urban region
     * 23-CE FLOWS – Spatial dynamics and integrated territorial
       development scenarios for the functional area of Central Europe
     * 24-DIGIPLAN - Evaluating Spatial Planning Practices with Digital
       Plan Data
     * 25-STISE - Sustainable Transport Infrastructure in the Strategic
       urban region Eurodelta
     * 26-ESPON METRO | The role and future perspectives of Cohesion
       Policy in the planning of Metropolitan Areas and Cities
     * 27- LAKES - territorial analysis of spatial progress and integrated
       development opportunities of large lakes in Europe
     * 28-QGasSP - Quantitative Greenhouse Gas Impact Assessment Method
       for Spatial Planning Policy
     * *TEVI – Territorial Evidence Support of European Territorial
       Cooperation Programmes
     * **Territorial Scenarios for the Danube and Adriatic Ionian
       Macro-regions (TEVI 2050)



Monitoring and Tools



Transnational Outreach

Preview (BUTTON) ×

   (BUTTON) Close

   © ESPON
     * FAQ
     * Contact
     * Site Map
     * Links
     * Legal Notice

   ESPON EGTC

   ESPON is an EU funded programme that delivers quality expertise to
   public authorities responsible for designing territorial policies.

Stay Connected

     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

   ESPON IN YOUR COUNTRY
   Austria flag  AT
   Belgium flag  BE
   Bulgaria flag  BG
   Croatia flag  HR
   Cyprus flag  CY
   Czech Republic flag  CZ
   Denmark flag  DK
   Estonia flag  EE
   Finland flag  FI
   France flag  FR
   Germany flag  DE
   Greece flag  EL
   Hungary flag  HU
   Ireland flag  IE
   Italy flag  IT
   Latvia flag  LV
   Lithuania flag  LT
   Luxembourg flag  LU
   Malta flag  MT
   Netherlands flag  NL
   Poland flag  PL
   Portugal flag  PT
   Romania flag  RO
   Slovakia flag  SK
   Slovenia flag  SI
   Spain flag  ES
   Sweden flag  SE
   Iceland flag  IS
   Liechtenstein flag  LI
   Norway flag  NO
   Switzerland flag  CH
     * Austria
     * Belgium
     * Bulgaria
     * Croatia
     * Cyprus
     * Czech Republic
     * Denmark
     * Estonia
     * France
     * Finland
     * Germany
     * Greece
     * Hungary
     * Iceland
     * Ireland
     * Italy
     * Latvia
     * Liechtenstein
     * Lithuania
     * Luxembourg
     * Malta
     * Netherlands
     * Norway
     * Poland
     * Portugal
     * Romania
     * Slovakia
     * Slovenia
     * Spain
     * Sweden
     * Switzerland</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-42">
<text>   Skip to main content

   (BUTTON)
     * Home
     * Society and Politics
     * Art and Culture
     * Biographies
     * Africa
     * Classroom
     * Places
     * Timelines
     * Archives
     * Publications
     * About Us
     * Donate

   Home
   [SAHOLogo.png]
     * Home
     * Society and Politics
     * Art and Culture
     * Biographies
     * Africa
     * Classroom
     * Places
     * Timelines
     * Archives
     * Publications
     * About Us
     * Donate

   ____________________ (go) go

Defining culture, heritage and identity

     * [african-masks-johannesburg-market-south-africa.jpg?itok=7y8UFac1]

   What is heritage and identity?

   Questions of heritage and identity are not as straightforward as they
   might first appear. Perhaps the first and best place to begin
   addressing these topics is by acknowledging that in a country like
   South Africa, there is not one heritage, or an easily delineated set of
   distinct identities. The cultures, languages and heritages of South
   Africa are multiple, diverse, and dynamic. Intersectional issues of
   gender, ethnicity, and race further complicate the matter of identity
   and make it highly inadvisable to categorise the different people
   contained within South Africa’s borders. This is especially true in the
   wake of segregationsit Apartheid policies which attempted to divide and
   conquer the majority of the country's population by emphasising the
   ontological immiscibility of different races.

   South Africa is heir to a legacy of autochthonous livelihoods (see,
   most famously, the Khoi and the San) as well as Bantu immigration;
   slavery; colonisation; settler economies; and liberation movements.
   These histories have all had a drastic effect on the make up of South
   Africa's population. Yet somehow through the interchange of cultures
   and sharing of cultural influences in the age of globalisation, there
   defiantly remains a tapestry of phenomena which can identifiably and
   unabmiguously to termed 'South Africa.' In this article we look at
   heritage, culture, identity in South Africa and attempt to provide some
   overview of what is meant when people speak of South African Heritage.

   Culture

   Like 'heritage' and 'identity,' 'culture' is a term that causes much
   confusion and suffers from its misuse. Traditionally it has been used
   to refer to the ways of life of a specific group of people, including
   various ways of behaving, belief systems, values, customs, dress,
   personal decoration, social relationships, religion, symbols and codes.
   The pitfalls of the term are however, considerable. For instance, it is
   not unusal for European visitors to South Africa or Africa at large, to
   innocently enquire into the nature of "African Culture." Such an
   enquiry clearly makes little sense, for the Xhosa, Zulu, Pedi, Dinka,
   Himba, Berber, Arab, and so forth all represent vastly different modes
   of practice and have little in common save for the relative geographic
   proximity in relation to the rest of the globe. Even to ask about 'Zulu
   culture' is potentially wide of the mark, given how varied and dynamic
   the Zulu population is. While it is a stretch of the imagination to
   state that culture simply does not exist, as has been claimed by
   certain postmodern intellectuals, it remains difficult to reach a
   consensus about what the term really denotes. Is there such a thing as
   'White culture' or 'Coloured culture,' for instance?

   Throughout history, various people and institutions have attempted to
   define what is meant by culture. In 1871, one of the fathers of British
   social anthropology, Edward Burnett Tylor attempted to describe it in
   the following way: "Culture or civilization, taken in its wide
   ethnographic sense, is that complex whole which includes knowledge,
   belief, art, morals, law, custom, and any other capabilities and habits
   acquired by man as a member of society." More recently, the United
   Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO)
   (2002) described culture as follows: "... culture should be regarded as
   the set of distinctive spiritual, material, intellectual and emotional
   features of society or a social group, and that it encompasses, in
   addition to art and literature, lifestyles, ways of living together,
   value systems, traditions and beliefs." Once one begins to search for
   an adequate definition of culture, one quickly realises that there are
   so many to choose from it is virtually impossible to decide which one
   is best.

   In South Africa, the question of definition according to race and
   culture carries an especially sharp edge to it, which potentially makes
   it a more contentious issue here than elsewhere. This is primarily due
   to the policies of the Apartheid government that sought to distinguish
   and segregate the country according to rigid definitions of race
   between 1948-1991. These policies reached their apotheosis in the
   establishment of the 'Bantustans,' which were created as homelands for
   the major different ethnic groups represented within South Africa's
   borders. For this reason, subsequent attempts to define the people of
   South Africa may easily carry an unpleasant connotation of racist
   categorisation from the past. With this proviso, South Africa has a
   hugely diverse population, representative of a vast spectrum of
   different languages, practices, and values.

   Culture in South Africa

   South Africa has been famously referred to as the rainbow nation
   because it is made up of so many diverse cultures and religions.
   Contained within South Africa's borders are Zulu, Xhosa, Pedi, Tswana,
   Ndebele, Khoisan, Hindu, Muslim, and Afrikaner people to name but a
   few. All of these people are united by calling South Africa home, and
   therefore their lives all contribute to forming a part of the country’s
   heritage, identity and culture. Understanding that South Africa is
   composed of all these various influences is essential for helping South
   Africans to understand and respect each other and to learn from each
   other’s cultural practices. This is part of the healing that democracy
   has brought after culture was used to divide South Africans in the
   past.

   Identity

   A person’s identity is made up of their own character combined with
   their family and social roots. Identity, like culture, is ever
   changing. For example a person can be a teacher, parent, spouse and
   driver to their children, as well as being a famous politician fighting
   for justice or a farmer growing crops for food. To this person it is
   possible to be all of these and much more. At the same time being a
   person of a particular race or class also influences one's identity.
   When people speak of 'intersectionality,' they are broadly referring to
   this way that a single person can be at the intersection of multiple
   different social identities. The experiences of a White, heterosexual,
   urban, and middle-class mother, for instance, will be vastly different
   to that of a Black, homosexual, rural, and working class single woman.
   Identity, in short, is made up of a multitude of factors and an
   individual is both subject to their circumstance and an agent able to
   influence which parts of themselves they present to the world.

   Heritage

   Heritage might be best broken up into two types: natural and cultural.
   A country’s natural heritage is its environment and natural resources,
   like gold and water. Areas that are very special and where animals or
   plants are in danger of extinction like the St. Lucia Wetlands and
   uKhahlamba Drakensberg Parks in KwaZulu Natal are often designated
   World Heritage sites. They are respected and internationally protected
   against harm. Cultural heritage, on the other hand, can be an
   altogether more contentious issue. Normally, the term 'cultural
   heritage' is used to describe those things that contribute to the sense
   of identity of a particular population or community of people. These
   can be special monuments, like a building, sculpture, painting, a cave
   dwelling or anything important because of its history, artistic or
   scientific value. The area in which this can become problematic is when
   a part of somebody's cultural heritage seems to clash directly with the
   dignity of another person's, or where it appears to transgress
   established global human rights practices (as set out in the Universal
   Declaration of Human Rights). An example might be the practice of
   female genital mutilation or the display of monuments that celebrate
   the lives of people who were responsible for the deaths of vast numbers
   of people, such as Cecil John Rhodes.

   Heritage and the South African Constitution

   A constitution is the guiding law on a country's values and rules. A
   constitution directs the government and all the people who live in a
   country on the rules for how citizens should be treated and how they
   should treat others. A constitution supports and protects a country and
   the heritage and culture of its peoples. South Africa is widely
   considered to have one of the fairest and most progressive
   constitutions in the world.

   In South Africa the vision of the constitution is for everybody to be
   equal. This means that nobody should be permitted to discriminate
   against anyone else because of things like skin colour, age, religion,
   language or gender. South Africans have human rights that are
   protected. For example, some schools have turned away children who have
   AIDS. However, the law protects these children’s rights to an
   education. In the same way the right to practice different religious
   beliefs is protected. Every person has the right to be part of any
   religion and to use the language of their choice. For this reason South
   Africa has 11 official languages so that all the major languages used
   in the country are given recognition. These languages are Sepedi,
   Sesotho, Setswana, siSwati, Tshivenda, Xitsonga, Afrikaans, English,
   isiNdebele, isiXhosa and isiZulu. Languages used by smaller groups such
   as the Khoi, Nama, San and sign language must also be respected under
   the constitution. Other languages used in South Africa include Shona,
   French, Swahili, Lingala, Portuguese, German, Greek, Gujarati, Hindi,
   Tamil, Portuguese, Telegu and Urdu. Other languages like Arabic, Hebrew
   and Sanskrit, used in certain religions, must also be respected.

   World Heritage Sites in South Africa

   A World Heritage Site is declared by the United Nations Educational,
   Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO). There are two types of
   World Heritage Sites: the first represents cultural and the second
   natural heritage.

   Cultural sites

   Cultural heritage sites have to show a masterpiece of human creativity
   or an important exchange of human values over a long period of time.
   This exchange must be seen in architecture or technology, the planning
   of the town or city and the design of the landscape. It has to show
   evidence of a tradition or civilisation that has disappeared or is
   still alive. It can also be a very good example of a type of building,
   group of buildings, and use of technology or reflect important stages
   in human history.

   A place where humans settled and used the land in a way that represents
   their culture can also be a cultural heritage site, especially if the
   area is affected by change that cannot be reversed. The authenticity
   and the way the site is protected and managed are also important
   factors.

   Natural sites

   Natural sites that can be considered to become World Heritage Sites
   must display major stages in the earth’s history. They can be in
   fossils, rocks or other geological features.

   If an area contains rare natural formations, like unique rock shapes,
   or is very beautiful, or has habitats and species of animals and plants
   that can only exist there, it becomes important to protect it. This
   also makes it a possible World Heritage Site. As with cultural sites,
   preservation is very important.

   Some special places fall into both cultural and natural heritage sites
   and in 1992 UNESCO decided that places that show the relationship
   between people and their environment could also be cultural landscapes.

   South Africa has 8 places declared as World Heritage Sites. These are:
    1. The iSimangaliso Greater St. Lucia Wetland Park
    2. The uKhahlamba Drakensberg Park
    3. Robben Island
    4. The Fossil Hominid Sites of Sterkfontein, Swartkrans, Kromdraai and
       environs
    5. The Mapungubwe Cultural Landscape
    6. Vredefort Dome
    7. The Cape Floral Region
    8. The Richtersveld Cultural and Botanical Landscape

   

Collections in the Archives

   Defining culture, heritage and identity
   Heritage day, Braai Day or Shaka Day: Whose Heritage is it Anyway?

Articles

    1. Customary Marriages in South Africa: Understanding The Recognition
       of Customary Marriages Act of 1998

Archive

    1. Heritage in Time of Global Crisis, edited by Kay Jaffer and
       Zenariah Barends | Article
    2. Some Aspects of Black Culture and Its Value in the Black World by
       Leopold Sedar Senghor | Newspaper clippings

   General Galleries

Related Content

   Heritage day, Braai Day or Shaka Day: Whose Heritage is it Anyway?

   Visit our YouTube Channel
     * Produced 14 October 2011
       Last Updated 27 August 2019
     __________________________________________________________________

Know something about this topic?

   Contribute

   Towards a people's history
     __________________________________________________________________
     __________________________________________________________________
     __________________________________________________________________

Contact Us

Donate to SAHO

About Us

SAHO Board Members

Funders

SAHO Timeline

Contribute

Partners

Copyright  Disclaimer

Contact Us

About Us

Funders

Links

Contribute

Partners

Copyright  Disclaimer

   sfy39587stp16</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-43">
<text>   ﻿ ﻿ ﻿

   ﻿
   Dyaqua
     * Home
     * Medea website
     * Invisible Solar
     * About us
     * Contacts

     *

   Dyaqua Invisible Solar
     * What is Invisible Solar
     * Invisible Solar Rooftile
     * News

   In production

Solar PV Rooftile

   Identical to classic terracotta roof tiles, the Invisible Solar
   Rooftile finally brings solar energy on heritage assets.
   Learn more

What Invisible Solar is

   Invisible Solar is a new PV technology that take on the appearance of
   any building material.
   Each Invisible Solar module is more than a photovoltaic panel, it also
   is an active architectural element with various functionality.
   Invisible Solar Wood

Features

   Integrazione estetica e architettonica

Integrated

   Invisible Solar blends perfectly in the environment where it's
   installed.
   Autopulente, disinquinante

Photocatalytic

   A natural process activated by light to purify air and clean the module
   surface.
   Resistenza

Strength

   Resistance to high static load, chemical solvents and atmospheric
   agents.
   Sostenibilit</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-44">
<text>   #alternate alternate

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-TKZ2B4M

     * FR
     * EN

   Polytechnique insights A REVIEW BY INSTITUT POLYTECHNIQUE DE PARIS
     * Columns
     * Braincamps

     * FR
     * EN

   (BUTTON) Sign up for the newsletter
   Subscribe to our weekly newsletter
   ____________________
   [ ]
   I have read and accepted the privacy policy.
   Sign up
     * π Planet
     * π Energy
     * π Health and biotech
     * π Digital
     * π Space
     * π Economics
     * π Industry
     * π Science and technology
     * π Society
     * π Geopolitics
     * π Videos

   Polytechnique insights A REVIEW BY INSTITUT POLYTECHNIQUE DE PARIS
   ____________________ Submit

   Share twitter linkedin facebook
   Copié !
   Subscribe to our weekly newsletter Newsletter
   Subscribe to our weekly newsletter
   ____________________ Valider
   [ ]
   I have read and accepted the privacy policy.
   Sign up
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
   Home / Chroniques / Collagen: a key to preserving historical parchments
   Blank parchment
   On the same topic:
     * The Institut Polytechnique de Paris launches a review
     * Towards a quantum internet thanks to teleportation
     * Haptics: why give machines a sense of touch?

   π Science and technology

Collagen: a key to preserving historical parchments

   On September 8th, 2021
   5 min reading time
   Marie-Claire Schanne-Klein
   Marie-Claire Schanne-Klein
   CNRS research director at the Optics and Biosciences Laboratory (LOB*),
   IP Paris
   Gael Latour
   Gaël Latour
   Senior lecturer, University of Paris-Saclay, Researcher at the Optics
   and Biosciences Laboratory (LOB*), IP Paris

   Whilst we may associate it more with aesthetics than antiquity,
   collagen is central in some cultural heritage objects. Indeed, this
   vital protein is a key structural molecule holding bodily tissues
   together to support cells. And since animal skin was used in centuries
   gone by to make parchments, the pages of many historical documents are
   full of collagen, too.

Collagen, collagen everywhere…

   “There are around 26 different types of collagen, that are found in
   many organs – tendons, skin, cornea, arteries, lungs and so on,” says
   Marie-Claire Schanne-Klein a physicist at École polytechnique. She
   specialises in biophotonics, which essentially means that she uses
   techniques from physics to study living tissues. In her case, she works
   with advanced optical imaging, known as multi-photon microscopy.

   She explains, “we use fluorescent markers in biological samples to
   label different cellular components so we can see them under a
   microscope. But collagen doesn’t need a marker as it naturally
   generates harmonics detected in multi-photon microscopy which makes it
   glow without further intervention on our behalf.” Hence, this protein,
   which creates a ‘fibrillary matrix’ supporting cells, can be observed
   thanks to its harmonic signal. “These intrinsic imaging modalities,
   without any labelling are a speciality of our lab.”
   Analysis using the multiphoton microscope from the Laboratoire
   d’Optique et Biosciences with a medieval manuscript on parchment from
   the Chartres’ library (Photo credit: M. Schmeltz, LOB).

   “Collagen forms fibrils that are arranged differently depending on the
   tissue we are studying,” she clarifies. “In skin, for example, we would
   expect to see tangled bundles of large fibrils, which are responsible
   for its supple texture. Whereas in the cornea collagen fibrils are very
   thin and highly ordered, arranged in layers (or lamellae) that make it
   rigid, giving it the property of focusing light correctly onto the
   retina.” However, collagen may degrade, losing its fibrillar structure
   ultimately, forming a gelatine that no longer generates a harmonic
   signature, but still fluorescence.

   Marie-Claire Schanne-Klein and her colleagues study the collagen
   principally for biomedical purposes. “Collagen structure plays an
   important role in many diseases. It can change in certain extreme
   situations like skin burns or scarring, which leave visible traces. But
   also, in certain cancers because tumours seem to form around structures
   of collagen as a scaffold. We tend to study them for that reason, to
   better understand the pathologies associated to collagen.”

Collagen in cultural heritage

   Interestingly, collagen is found in other places too, including many
   historical manuscripts written on parchments that are made from animal
   skin. Gaël Latour from Université Paris-Saclay studies these materials.
   “Parchments can degrade over time due to storage conditions, and as
   they do so they become increasingly transparent and rigid, leading to
   the loss of the readability of the writing,” he outlines. This
   transparent material is, in fact, degraded collagen, often referred to
   as gelatine.

   “It is common knowledge in the world of cultural heritage that objects
   or documents made from skin will ‘gelatinise’ in this way. And now we
   know that this happens because the collagen fibres in the parchment
   unwind as it degrades, progressively transforming the material into
   gelatine. In doing so, the parchment gradually becomes more
   homogeneous, letting more light through.” Moreover, the process is
   irreversible: once the collagen-to-gelatine process has occurred the
   document is lost forever.

   With his colleagues they have been studying documents used in Western
   Europe in the 13^th Century, at a time before paper, when parchments
   were commonly used. But they have analysed documents that go as far
   back at the 8^th Century. “Remarkably, some of the documents are still
   very well preserved, with just damage at the borders of the pages where
   they have been handled over the hundreds of years since they
   were made.”

   Due to the collagen content of parchment, the team realised that they
   could use multi-photon microscopy to study it. “Currently, the main
   method for testing degradation of parchments is called differential
   scanning calorimetry; it’s a method that requires taking a sample from
   the page that is crushed into a pulp to be tested destroying a part –
   however small – of the document,” he explains. “But if we use
   multi-photon microscopy to study the collagen, we can do this in a
   non-invasive way.” In 2016
   ^1, Latour, Schanne-Klein and colleagues, published a report showing
   that it was possible to see whether a parchment was degraded using
   their technique.

     The researchers show that this method can be used to analyse the
     level of degradation – or ‘gelatinisation’ – of parchments.

   Copié !
   (Left) Picture of a medieval manuscript on parchment from the Chartres’
   library (photo credit: CNRS–IRHT). (Right) Multiphoton microscopy
   images with well-preserved collagen in the center (Second harmonic
   signals in green) and degraded collagen on the periphery (two-photon
   excited fluorescence in red).

Preserving history

   “Initially the idea was to show that we could see degraded collagen in
   the parchments. So, in the beginning the idea was a simple ‘yes’ or
   ‘no’,” he says. “But now, we are seeking to look at how we can quantify
   the amount of degradation. It could help us keep an eye on which
   documents need to be taken care of more effectively or help towards
   restoration efforts.”

   Going further, they recently published another study
   ^2 in which they show that the technique can be used to analyse the
   amount of degradation – or gelatinisation – of parchments. They used
   these techniques to analyse custom documents, then historical ones
   preserved since the 13^th Century from the archives of the Library of
   Chartres, France. In this particular case, over 200 of the documents
   had been exposed to heat from a fire during a bomb raid during World
   War II, resulting in extensive damage and gelatinisation. Gaël Latour
   and his colleagues used these invaluable pages to provide evidence that
   it is possible to quantify the amount degradation using multi-photon
   microscopy, whilst causing them no further harm.

   “Now we want to also understand how the degradation happens,” Gaël
   Latour adds. We have been starting from modern parchments that we have
   artificially degraded. The team expose them to dry conditions and
   temperatures above 100°C as if they were ‘aging’ and then analyse them
   using microscopy to quantify the degradation. Marie-Claire
   Schanne-Klein adds, “normally, gelatine is formed from exposing
   collagenous animal tissue to high temperatures – that’s how gelatine
   used for candy is made, for example, and in the case of these
   documents. But we know that in most cases, the parchments haven’t been
   exposed to such heat. So, in other cases, it is likely the result of
   acidification due to bacterial activity on the documents, which can
   produce an acidic fluid due to humid conditions during storage.” The
   team are setting about studying how this happens in more detail and to
   challenge this hypothesis.

   And they don’t plan on stopping at parchments. “There are many other
   historical objects that contain collagen, too.” Indeed, in museums skin
   can be found in range of materials including rawhide or leather that
   was used to make clothes or in natural history specimens. There are
   other biomolecules that exhibit harmonics, notably cellulosis in
   plants, so that we can analyse old fabrics and musical instruments made
   of wood and more generally a range of other objects – each with their
   own story to tell for years to come.

   For further reading
     * https://​por​tail​.poly​tech​nique​.edu/​l​o​b​/​f​r​/​r​e​c​h​e​r​
       c​h​e​/​m​i​c​r​o​s​c​o​p​i​e​s​-​a​v​a​n​c​e​e​s​/​m​u​l​t​i​p​h​o
       ​t​o​n​-​c​h​a​r​a​c​t​e​r​i​z​a​t​i​o​n​-​c​u​l​t​u​r​a​l​-​h​e​r​
       i​t​a​g​e​-​a​r​t​e​facts
     * https://​hal​.archives​-ouvertes​.fr/​h​a​l​-​0​3​0​2​8​0​9​1​/​d​o
       ​c​ument

Interview by James Bowers

   1https://​www​.nature​.com/​a​r​t​i​c​l​e​s​/​s​r​e​p​26344↑
   2https://​advances​.sci​encemag​.org/​c​o​n​t​e​n​t​/​7​/​2​9​/​e​a​b​g
   ​1​0​9​0​.​a​b​s​tract↑

Contributors

   Marie-Claire Schanne-Klein

Marie-Claire Schanne-Klein

   CNRS research director at the Optics and Biosciences Laboratory (LOB*),
   IP Paris

   After studying at the Ecole Polytechnique and completing a thesis in
   physics, Marie-Claire Schanne-Klein teaches in the physics department
   of the Ecole Polytechnique and is responsible for physics at the
   Doctoral School of IP Paris. She was awarded the CNRS silver medal in
   2019. *LOB: a joint research unit CNRS, École Polytechnique - Institut
   Polytechnique de Paris, Inserm
   Gael Latour

Gaël Latour

   Senior lecturer, University of Paris-Saclay, Researcher at the Optics
   and Biosciences Laboratory (LOB*), IP Paris

   Gaël Latour is a physicist specialising in optics, and a lecturer at
   the science department of the University of Paris-Saclay. He teaches
   physics, and more particularly optics, from bachelors to masters level.
   His research activities at the Optics and Biosciences Laboratory are
   focused on the development of new imaging modalities, in particular
   non-linear optical microscopy, and on their applications in the
   biomedical field (cornea, skin) and for the study of heritage objects.
   *LOB: a joint research unit CNRS, École Polytechnique - Institut
   Polytechnique de Paris, Inserm

More on this topic

   Précédent
   Suivant
   Pierre-Pol Liebgott
   π Energy π Science and technology

Transforming organic waste into hydrogen using marine bacteria

   Pierre-Pol Liebgott,

   Researcher in Microbiology at IRD
   On October 18th, 2023
   3 min reading time
   Laure COLIN
   π Geopolitics π Science and technology

Military drones: current trends in the market

   Laure Colin,

   PhD student at the Centre for Management Research (I³-CRG*) at École
   Polytechnique (IP Paris)
   On October 11th, 2022
   5 min reading time
   QUERE_David
   π Science and technology

Soft matter: a physical state you probably don’t know you know

   David Quéré,

   CNRS Research Director and Professor at École Polytechnique (IP Paris)
   On January 25th, 2023
   4 min reading time
   Franck MULTON
   π Science and technology π Digital

Using virtual reality to boost skills in Olympic boxers

   Franck Multon,

   Professor at Université de Rennes2 at Institut de Recherche en
   Informatique et Systèmes Aléatoires (IRISA)
   On October 4th, 2022
   3 min reading time
   Bernadette Dorizzi Biometrics
   π Science and technology π Digital

Beyond security: the future of biometrics is behaviour

   Bernadette Dorizzi,

   Emeritus Professor at Télécom SudParis
   On March 30th, 2021
   4 min reading time

   Subscribe to our weekly newsletter Subscribe to our weekly newsletter
   ____________________ Sign up
   [ ]
   I have read and accepted the privacy policy.

Our selection of braincamps

   0_BIOMIMETISME
   π Science and technology π Health and biotech π Planet

Biomimicry: when science draws inspiration from nature

   3 episodes
   0_transition‑énergétique
   π Energy π Planet π Science and technology

Energy transition: there is still a lot of unexploited potential

   3 episodes
   0_oceanClimat
   π Planet π Science and technology π Energy

Is the ocean the last bastion against climate change?

   3 episodes

   facebook twitter linkedin instagram
     * About us
     * Sponsors
     * Contributors
     * Legal notices
     * Contact
     * (BUTTON) Cookie Settings

   Logo Institut Polytechnique de Paris

   (BUTTON)

   Our world explained with science. Every week, in your inbox.
   Get the newsletter</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-45">
<text>   #Compare the Difference Between Similar Terms » Feed Compare the
   Difference Between Similar Terms » Comments Feed Compare the Difference
   Between Similar Terms » Difference Between Ancestry and Heritage
   Comments Feed alternate alternate

   Compare the Difference Between Similar Terms

   Difference Between

   [INS: :INS]

   Home / People / History / Difference Between Ancestry and Heritage

Difference Between Ancestry and Heritage

   July 22, 2015 Posted by Admin

                                 [INS: :INS]

Key Difference – Ancestry vs Heritage


   Ancestry can simply be defined as the decent or the lineage of a
   person. All  beings on this earth have their own ancestry. When we
   trace back the history, we can think of our ancestors who are great
   grandparents, and we are descendants of their ancestry. On the other
   hand, heritage is the inherited customs, traditions, beliefs,
   monuments, and artifacts from our ancestors. Heritage includes both
   physical objects and intangible things. The key difference between
   ancestry and heritage is that the ancestry is the lineage of the people
   while the heritage is the inheritance from the ancestry. In this
   article, we are going to look at the difference between the terms,
   ancestry and heritage, in more detail.

What is Ancestry?

   Ancestry deals with the people who come before us in our line of
   lineage. One’s parents, grandparents and great grandparents and their
   former generations can be taken as the ancestry of him/her. In
   scientific terms, the people who are responsible for one’s physical
   existence via procreation can be recognized as the ancestry or
   ancestors. Once we trace back the past, we are able to draw a family
   tree based on the ancestry of anybody. Thus, ancestry is genetically
   and generationally inherited. Nobody can change his/her ancestry though
   he or she can hide details.

   Being aware of one’s ancestry is helpful in certain matters, such as
   identifying diseases and certain habits. Also, ancestry adds value to
   one’s personal identity. Ancestry has some connection with one’s
   birthplace because his family members and ancestors might have been
   living there for a long time. But it is not necessary for a person to
   be in the very place that they were born to trace back his ancestry.
   However, it might be useful in order to collect deeper facts about
   one’s ancestors.

   ancestry vs. heritage
   [INS: :INS]

What is Heritage?

   Heritage deals with cultural inheritance. Material things, as well as
   non-tangible things, can be inherited via culture. Whatever the things
   we inherit from our ancestors can be considered as heritage. Also,
   peoples’ lifestyles are shaped by heritage. That is, we form our
   behaviors according to the habits, lifestyles, ideas, beliefs, and
   practices, etc., inherited from our culture. Heritage can be seen in
   many forms. Natural resources, such as fauna and flora,
   landscapes, land forms, etc. can be considered as natural heritages.
   Artifacts, paintings, jewelry, clothes, and monuments can be described
   as material heritages. Beliefs, values, traditions, ethics, and morals
   are non-physical features that we’ve  inherited. All these things add
   value to humans as a whole, and we all benefit from those heritages.

   An important fact about heritage is that it could be preserved and
   valued as well as it could be destroyed. We can leave our heritages to
   the future generations also if we want. However, heritage is an
   essential part of our current life.

   difference between ancestry and heritage

What is the difference between Ancestry and Heritage?

Definitions of ancestry and heritage

   Ancestry: Ancestry is one’s historical evolution, based on family
   relationships.

   Heritage: Heritage is a sort of inheritance from the ancestry, not
   necessarily relatives.

Characteristics of Ancestry and Heritage

Inheritance

   Ancestry: Ancestry is more or less a biological phenomenon.

   Heritage: Heritage is mostly a cultural phenomenon.

Alterations

   Ancestry: No one can change his/her ancestry unless he or she hide
   details about it.

   Heritage: Heritage can be preserved as well as destroyed, according to
   the will.

Importance

   Ancestry: Ancestry is important in figuring out details on diseases,
   genetic conditions.

   Heritage: Heritage is important in understanding cultural and social
   values, especially in bygone.

   Image Courtesy:

   Katarzyna  William by M.Dolly [CC BY-SA 2.0] via Flickr

   “Heritage Hill 2” by Kent county; transferred by User:Werewombat
   [Public Domain] via Wikimedia Commons
   [INS: :INS]

Related posts:

   Difference Between Middle Ages and Medieval Ages Difference Between
   Middle Ages and Medieval Ages [default.png?ssl=1] Difference Between
   Mastaba and Pyramid [default.png?ssl=1] Difference Between History and
   Archaeology BC vs BCE Difference Between BC and BCE Difference Between
   Era and Period Difference Between Era and Period

   Filed Under: History Tagged With: ancestry, ancestry and heritage
   difference, Ancestry definition, Ancestry meaning, Heritage, Heritage
   definition, Heritage meaning

About the Author: Admin

   Coming from Engineering cum Human Resource Development background, has
   over 10 years experience in content developmet and management.

Comments

    1.
   Brenda Webb Alexander says
       August 18, 2017 at 5:11 am
       Thank you so much I am excited to find my Heritage through my
       ancestry my grandfather I knew of him I thank you for your help
       Reply

Leave a Reply Cancel reply

   Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

   Comment
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________

   Name * ______________________________

   Email * ______________________________

   Website ______________________________

   Post Comment

   ____________________ Search

   Request Article Request Article

Featured Posts

   Difference Between Coronavirus and Cold Symptoms

Difference Between Coronavirus and Cold Symptoms

   Difference Between Coronavirus and SARS

Difference Between Coronavirus and SARS

   Difference Between Coronavirus and Influenza

Difference Between Coronavirus and Influenza

   Difference Between Coronavirus and Covid 19

Difference Between Coronavirus and Covid 19

   [INS: :INS]

You May Like

   Difference Between Hippie and Hipster

Difference Between Hippie and Hipster

   What is the Difference Between Mosaic Down Syndrome and Down Syndrome

What is the Difference Between Mosaic Down Syndrome and Down Syndrome

Difference Between Volcanoes and Earthquakes

Difference Between Kosher Salt and Pickling Salt

   Difference Between Carbon Tetrachloride and Sodium Chloride

Difference Between Carbon Tetrachloride and Sodium Chloride

Latest Posts

     * What is the Difference Between CEA and CA-125
     * What is the Difference Between Nephrolithiasis and Nephrocalcinosis
     * What is the Difference Between Body Dysmorphic Disorder and
       Anorexia
     * What is the Difference Between Multiple Myeloma and Waldenstrom’s
       Macroglobulinemia
     * What is the Difference Between Coccidioides and Coccidioidomycosis
     * What is the Difference Between Epileptic and Nonepileptic Seizures

     * Home
     * Vacancies
     * About
     * Request Article
     * Contact Us

   Copyright © 2010-2018 Difference Between. All rights reserved. Terms of
   Use and Privacy Policy: Legal.</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-46">
<text>   [tr?id=137762143534301ev=PageViewnoscript=1]

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-P2MP5QB

     * Jump to menu
     * Jump to content

   Folkhälsan
   (BUTTON) Menu (BUTTON) Menu (BUTTON) Search
   ____________________ (BUTTON) Search
   SvFiRu

     * Knowledge
     * Join us
     * Contact us

     * Education
          + Dietary adviser
          + Mindfulness
          + NLP courses in personal development
          + Language arena
          + Occupational arena
          + Personal trainer course
          + Masseur course
     * Research
          + Annual report 2022
          + Annual report 2021
          + Annual report 2020
          + Public Health
          + Genetics
          + Our research center

     * Working at Folkhälsan
     * Associations and volunteers
     * Projects and campaigns

     * Phonebook
     * About Folkhälsan
     * Press and media

   07 February 2023

The Finnish Genetic Disease Heritage

   Molecular genetics research on a group of rare genetic diseases called
   the Finnish Disease Heritage has been a key focus of The Folkhälsan
   Research Center for decades. A new review article published in Disease
   Models and Mechanisms gives a fresh update on this interesting and
   evolving group of diseases.

     It is important to continue studies with rare diseases, which often
     help advancing understanding of more common disorders with similar
     symptomatic repertoire.

   Hereditary monogenic disorders are caused by single, usually
   autosomal-recessive gene variants and can be completely sporadic or
   enriched in historically isolated populations due to past genetic drift
   events. In Finland, distinct subpopulations have remained and
   maintained their unique genetic repertoire, partially due to relative
   geographic isolation and several evolutionary bottlenecks leading to
   social isolation on a population level. The Finnish disease heritage is
   a prominent example of this phenomena. In Finland about one in five
   persons carries a gene variant associated with at least one Finnish
   heritage disease, and about one in 500 children born is affected.
   This is partially due to the prominence of what is called population
   isolates. Population isolates are defined as subpopulations originally
   derived from a small group of individuals who became isolated because
   of a certain founding event, e.g. settlement of a new territory, and
   have remained isolated for several generations. This is called the
   founder effect, and is an example of a bottleneck phenomenon in which,
   for one reason or another, only a few survivors of a population remain
   to repopulate. Other typical evolutionary bottlenecks are famine,
   epidemics and war. Finland’s population history is a great example of
   this, being characterized by the founder effect, several bottlenecks,
   isolation and the subsequent genetic drift.

Pioneering research

   In the early 1960’s, Dr Reijo Norio conducted genealogical studies on
   congenital nephrosis, an inherited disorder characterized by protein in
   the urine and swelling of the body, often resulting in infection and
   kidney failure. He discovered the autosomal-recessive mode of
   inheritance of this disease. An autosomal-recessive genetic condition
   must be passed down from both parents in order to manifest, become
   phenotype. In contrast, autosomal-dominant inheritance only requires
   getting the gene defect from one parent. In the wake of this discovery,
   Dr. Norio later described how the founder effect and isolation had
   nudged the Finnish gene pool towards both having over- and under
   representation of distinct genetic diseases.

   Enter the Finnish disease heritage, the FDH. An FDH disease is a
   genetic disease or disorder that is significantly more common among the
   Finnish than other populations. Finnish physicians were often the first
   to identify and describe many of these diseases, however, their foreign
   colleagues have later identified some of the diseases in other
   population isolates as well.
   [perheentupa-steps.png?preset=main-body]


   "The Perheentupa-steps" (Uusimaa et al. 2022). This widely used
   traditional representation of the Finnish disease heritage (FDH)
   diseases organizes them chronologically based on the year in which the
   disease description was published. The respective Online Mendelian
   Inheritance in Man (OMIM) codes are in parentheses. FDH diseases are in
   black and candidate diseases in blue.

   As research has progressed, geneticists can now relatively easily
   pinpoint whether a new FDH candidate disease has a founder mutation and
   whether the allele frequency clearly differs between Finnish and other
   populations in the world. Today, the FDH contains 39 diseases in total.
   34 of them autosomal-recessive, three autosomal-dominant, and two
   X-linked (meaning that the genes are only found on X-chromosomes). The
   Folkhälsan Research Center (FHRC) has contributed to around half of
   these findings.

To Develop Treatments We Must Understand The Pathomechanisms

   The FDH has opened the door for genotype-phenotype discoveries,
   pioneering genetic research and, more recently, to research into the
   underlying molecular mechanisms and potential treatments. But the FDH
   itself is evolving, too. In the new review article, published in
   Disease Models and Mechanisms, a group of expert authors including Dr.
   Jukka Kallijärvi working on GRACILE-syndrome at the FHRC, give a fresh
   update on the FDH.

   – Prof. emerita Vineta Fellman’s decades-long and my more recent work
   on GRACILE syndrome is an example of a successful trajectory from
   clinical work via genetics to experimental research aiming at
   understanding the molecular disease mechanism and developing
   treatments, says Jukka Kallijärvi.
   [jukka-kallijarvi-3.jpg?preset=main-body]

   Docent Jukka Kallijärvi is studying the GRACILE-syndrome at the FHRC.

   Science evolves progressively and research seldom yields immediate
   results, but the hopes are high, and the effort is deemed to be worth
   it in the long run.

   – For many of the FDH diseases the experimental work is still awaiting
   to be started. It is a demanding and expensive endeavor and not all
   diseases can be easily studied in experimental models such as cell
   cultures or mice, but this should not discourage us from doing it,
   Kallijärvi notes.

Better Understanding Of More Common Disorders

   Even though the benefits of studying rare diseases might seem marginal,
   advancing the frontier within genetic science has a habit of giving new
   insights and deepening understanding of human genetics in general. As
   such, results tend to end up benefiting medicine as a whole.

   – It is important to continue studies with rare diseases, which often
   help advancing understanding of more common disorders with similar
   symptomatic repertoire. Utilization of modern methodology in
   experiments tackling the FDH provides missing information of the
   physiological functions that the disease-causing genes carry out under
   physiological conditions. For this, we are creating new in vivo models
   with CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing to generate preclinical models that
   enable novel treatment discoveries for these devastating diseases, adds
   Dr. Satu Kuure, one of the corresponding authors of the review.

   The researchers underline that maintaining the ongoing research to
   identify novel disease-causing variations and comprehend their
   molecular and cellular pathomechanisms is crucial. These combined
   efforts will make it easier to diagnose uncommon diseases and lay the
   foundation for a better knowledge of more common diseases in the
   future.

   Read the whole study here.


   Simon Granroth, Science Communicator

   Reference:
   Uusimaa J, Kettunen J, Varilo T, Järvelä I, Kallijärvi J, Kääriäinen H,
   Laine M, Lapatto R, Myllynen P, Niinikoski H, Rahikkala E, Suomalainen
   A, Tikkanen R, Tyynismaa H, Vieira P, Zarybnicky T, Sipilä P, Kuure S,
   Hinttala R. The Finnish genetic heritage in 2022 - from diagnosis to
   translational research. Dis Model Mech. 2022 Oct 1;15(10):dmm049490.
   doi: 10.1242/dmm.049490. Epub 2022 Oct 26. PMID: 36285626; PMCID:
   PMC9637267


     * Knowledge (BUTTON)

     * Education (BUTTON)

     * Dietary adviser
     * Mindfulness
     * NLP courses in personal development
     * Language arena
     * Occupational arena
     * Personal trainer course
     * Masseur course

     Research (BUTTON)
     * Annual report 2022
     * Annual report 2021
     * Annual report 2020
     * Public Health
     * Genetics
     * Our research center

     Join us (BUTTON)
     * Working at Folkhälsan
     * Associations and volunteers
     * Projects and campaigns

     Contact us (BUTTON)
     * Phonebook
     * About Folkhälsan
     * Press and media

   [fhlogo_176px.png?preset=220]
     * Folkhälsan 2023
     * Växel: +358 9 315 000

   [fam.png?preset=220]

     * Data protection
     * Working at Folkhälsan
     * Projects and campaigns
     * Contact us
     * About Folkhälsan
     * Whistleblowing
     *</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-47">
<text>   #Palm Springs Law Blog

   ClickCease

                              [USEMAP:aaa.png]

   HERITAGE LEGAL
   760.325.2020
   FREE CONSULTATION

     *
     * HOME
     * PRACTICE AREAS
     * ARTICLES
     * LGBTQ
     * TESTIMONIALS
     * UPLOAD
     * LOCATIONS
     * FAQS
     * BLOG
     * ABOUT US
     * CONTACT US

   Estate PlanningProbate / Estate AdministrationSpecial Needs
   PlanningLiving WillsTrusts for MinorsEstate Tax PlanningEstate Planning
   for HomeownersDurable Power of AttorneyIntestate Succession LawsHIPAA
   AuthorizationSpendthrift TrustsLiving TrustsImportance of Updating
   BeneficiariesNaming a Guardian for Your Child
   Estate PlanningLGBT
   OverviewResources
   Palm Springs Service AreaCoachella Valley Service AreaCathedral City
   Service AreaIndian Wells Service AreaIndio Service AreaRancho
   MiragePalm Desert Service Area
   Estate PlanningLiving TrustsEstate TaxesPlanning for IncapacitySpecial
   Needs Planning

                              [USEMAP:aaa.png]

   INTEGRITY
   EXPERIENCE
   RESULTS

            [gb_blank.gif] [gb_enlarge.gif] [gb_shrink.gif] [gb_print.gif]

Palm Springs  San Diego Estate Planning  Family Law Firm

   []
   Name *
   ____________________
   Email *
   ____________________
   Phone *
   ____________________
   Question or Comments

   ____________________
   ____________________
   Submit

Palm Springs Estate Planning  Family Law Firm.

   Heritage Legal, PC is a law practice known for providing its clients
   with excellent legal guidance in three major areas: estate planning,
   and family law. Serving a diverse group of clients in Palm Springs,
   California and the entire Coachella Valley, our lead attorney, H.
   Christopher Heritage, Esq., has a well-earned reputation for knowledge,
   skill and compassion. He is savvy in each of his focus areas and prides
   himself on giving each individual client his personal attention.
   Heritage Legal has an inclusive approach to providing legal services,
   so Chris has extensive experience working with the LGBTQ community and
   other types of non-traditional families.
   LEARN MORE

Heritage Estate Planning Services

   Estate planning is a more complex undertaking than many people realize,
   involving emotional as well as financial decisions. Contrary to
   prevalent misconception, estate planning is not only for those with
   substantial wealth or of advanced age. We advise Individuals and
   couples across the board to take the time to prepare for the future
   since it often arrives much more quickly than we anticipate.
   At Heritage Legal our whole team is well aware that our estate planning
   clients are dealing with sensitive issues that will affect not only
   their assets, but their healthcare, their legacy, and their loved ones.
   For this reason, we take our mission very seriously. We offer
   comprehensive estate planning services to clients with varying assets
   and a wide variety of special concerns.
   Probates  Trust Administration

   Our estate planning services include:
   Creating wills to designate beneficiaries and an executor to manage
   asset distribution
   Planning for charitable giving by various means
   Handling probate
   Planning for business succession of LLCs and FLPs
   Helping you to avoid probate in order to prevent excessive taxation and
   delays
   Providing fiduciary services
   Establishing trusts to protect assets and provide for special
   circumstances
   Assisting executors and trustees in performing their duties

   Probates  Trust Administration

   One of the chief advantages of working with a talented estate planning
   attorney like Chris Heritage is that he will direct you to areas you
   may not have thought to consider and help you to resolve problems you
   didn’t know were solvable. For example, he will be able to craft
   revocable and irrevocable trusts that may be useful to you in
   particular circumstances and will be able to clarify the differences
   between them. He will also assist you in establishing trusts for
   beneficiaries who have special needs, such as medical or psychiatric
   disabilities, or who are, because of extravagant spending, substance
   abuse, or gambling addiction, unable to manage their inheritance in
   such a way that it will remain available to meet their long-term needs.

Heritage Legal:
We’re Here When You Need Us

   There are times in life when you need a first-rate legal
   representative. The trick is finding one who became an attorney for the
   right reasons, one who has integrity and empathy built-in to his/her
   character. Whether you are ready to plan your estate, are dealing with
   a joyful or troubling domestic issue that requires the intervention of
   a well-balanced family law attorney, or feel the walls of debt closing
   in around you, consulting with Heritage Legal is a smart move. Call us
   or fill out a contact form on our website. Taking action will empower
   you and so will we.
   Probates  Trust Administration

   Top Probate Lawyer in Moreno Valley Wealth Counsel Probates  Trust
   Administration

   Riverside CA Estate Planning Bankruptcy
   [squirrel.png]

Instant Call Back

   Recent Blog Entries

   Asset Protection Strategies to Keep In Mind When Estate Planning

   Why the Holidays Are a Good Time to Approach the Subject of Estate
   Planning

   Updating Your Estate Plan After Your Spouse’s Passing
   Click To Call
   ____________________
   [2013_call_me_now.png]-Submit
   Calling. . .

   © 2024 Heritage Legal, PC | Disclaimer
   777 Tahquitz Canyon Way, Suite 328, Palm Springs, CA 92262 | Phone:
   760-325-2020
   Estate Planning | Probate / Estate Administration | Special Needs
   Planning | Living Wills | Trusts for Minors | Estate Tax Planning |
   Estate Planning for Homeowners | Durable Power of Attorney | Intestate
   Succession Laws | HIPAA Authorization | Spendthrift Trusts | Living
   Trusts | Importance of Updating Beneficiaries | Naming a Guardian for
   Your Child | | LGBTQ | Testimonials | Upload | Locations | Articles

   -
   -

   777 Tahquitz Canyon Way, Suite 328
   Palm Springs, CA 92262
   Client Login
   Access Your LegalVault
   Account Online

   Phone: 760.325.2020
   Fax: 760.325.2099
   Hospital Login
   Access Patient Medical
   Directives / Allergy Information

   ©  Heritage Legal, P.C.| Privacy Policy | Disclaimer | Terms of Service
   | Attorney Website Design by Omnizant

   ©  Heritage Legal, P.C.| Privacy Policy | Disclaimer | Terms of Service
   | Attorney Website Design by Omnizant</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-48">
<text>    #World Dance Heritage Research Centre » Feed World Dance Heritage
   Research Centre » Comments Feed alternate alternate alternate

   World Dance Heritage Research Centre

     * Home
     * DANCE RESEARCH
     * Dance Tourism
     * Articles
          + All Posts
          + DANCE STYLES
          + Books on Dance
     * ABOUT
     * CONTACT

   Select Page
   ____________________

   Home » Dance Research » Conceptual Framework » The Missing Body and
   Embodiment in Heritage Studies (3.3)

The Missing Body and Embodiment in Heritage Studies (3.3)

   Last Updated on July 14, 2023

   Table of Contents
   Toggle [X]

     * Embodiment, the Body and Heritage
          + Safeguarding ICH and Maintaining Cultural Diversity
          + Embracing Cultural Embodiment and Body-Mind Unity
          + Audiences, Choreographers and Dance Production
     * Replacing Dualism With Post-Dualist Duality
          + Related posts:

Embodiment, the Body and Heritage

   In the previous section, Kirshenblatt-Gimblett (2004, p. 53) was quoted
   as suggesting that the model of ICH accords value to the carriers of
   oral traditions, to their ‘habitus and habit’ and that intangible
   heritage is alive.

   This is an important point, but the carriers are also individuals who
   have/are bodies. Ruggles and Silverman (2009, p. 11) argue that:

     Place and performance are bound together through the human body . .
     . The dramatic shift in values implied in the Intangible Heritage
     Convention . . . represents a radical paradigm shift from the
     objective nature of material culture to the subjective experience of
     the human being.
     Ruggles and Silverman (2009)

Safeguarding ICH and Maintaining Cultural Diversity

   In addition to Skounti (2008) and Ruggles and Silverman (2009), Logan
   (2007, p. 33) (investigating the links between safeguarding ICH,
   maintaining cultural diversity and enforcing human rights) opines that
   intangible heritage is:

     ‘embodied in people rather than in inanimate objects’ and that
     ‘managing intangible heritage . . . we are dealing with embodied and
     living heritage’.
     Logan (2012, p.236)

   Graeff (2014, p. 12) also draws attention to the body in ICH, with
   regards to music, by pointing out that, ‘even if material objects like
   musical instruments, scores and recordings may be essential components
   of musical traditions . . . learning an instrument and a musical
   practice always implies the use of the body’.

   Graeff (ibid.) posits that musical repertoires can be archived within
   bodies, even when there are no external records and this is
   particularly true for ‘Afro-Brazilian traditions, which having been
   violently oppressed on the one hand, and scarcely documented on the
   other, did not cease to live and to be transmitted’.

Embracing Cultural Embodiment and Body-Mind Unity

   The field of dance, instead, embraces cultural embodiment and body-mind
   unity. In 2.3 (dance study approach), I mentioned Novack (1988) and her
   embodied approach to the study of dance in relation to culture.

   Since the late 1980s, the dance field has been engaging more and more
   with sociological theories of embodiment (Daly, 1991; Kapchan, 1994;
   Reed, 1998; Buckland, 2001; Giurchescu, 2001; Sklar, 2001; Thomas,
   2003, 2013; David, 2012; Fensham and Kelada, 2012b; Stock, 2012).

   Indeed, in dance, the body becomes a carrier of cultural heritage in a
   tangible way.

   As Buckland (2001, p. 1) argues, dance ‘has a particular propensity to
   foreground cultural memory as embodied practice by virtue of its
   predominantly somatic modes of transmission’.

   Grau (2007, p. 193) posits:

     Cultures and histories are embodied in all of our activities. . . .
     These in-corporations of world-views are often incarnated in a more
     “distilled” way in the extra-ordinary activities of dancers and
     other movement specialists.
     Grau (2007)

   Giurchescu (2001) argues that dancers can never be separated from their
   socio-cultural background, which is interlocked with the individual’s
   physical and mental features.

   She observes that dance is cultural and it is alive in the body of the
   performer, ‘as a psychosomatic entity, the dancer is the “soul and
   body” of dance’ (2001, p. 109).

Audiences, Choreographers and Dance Production

   Audiences, choreographers, and other people involved in the production
   and fruition of dance also experience it in an embodied and culturally
   influenced way, with their senses, as argued by Reason and Reynolds
   (2010).

   These senses include the kinaesthetic sense and the kinaesthetic
   empathy that an observer feels by looking at movement.

   Indeed, there is a scientific basis to these assertions, as the
   neuroscientist, Damasio posits (2012, p. 103), ‘mirror neurons are . .
   . the ultimate as-if body device . . . the simulation, in the brain’s
   body maps, of a body state that is not actually taking place in the
   organism’.

   In the following sections, I will build the conceptual framework of
   holistic dance/heritage, by turning to the theories of Merleau-Ponty,
   Bourdieu, and Giddens.

   These will give me the theoretical tools to gradually integrate all the
   tangible and intangible elements of heritage into a fluid,
   comprehensive model, in which material and immaterial elements
   interact.

Replacing Dualism With Post-Dualist Duality

   The first step to achieve this is to ‘replace the dualism (two divided
   and distinct entities) of tangible vs intangible with the post-dualist
   idea of duality (a unity of two divergent aspects of the same reality)’
   (Lo Iacono and Brown, 2016, p. 88).

   The concept of duality is borrowed from Giddens’ Structuration Theory,
   in which social structures and individual agency are combined to form a
   duality.

   The first dualism that will need overcoming is that of mind and body,
   as the body is the main channel through which material and immaterial
   life interact.

   As Shilling (2005, p. 11) posits, in sociology, the body is ‘a source
   of, a location for and a means by which individuals are oriented
   towards society’.

   For Shilling, drawing on his analysis of Simmel, Marx, and Durkheim,
   the body is a source of society because the body creates:
     * social life
     * a location because society expresses itself on people’s bodies (for
       example, the way they move and dress)
     * a means because the body is a medium through which individuals
       interact with society and position themselves within it, either in
       accordance with or in opposition to it.

   Merleau-Ponty’s phenomenology will be the first theoretical tool that
   will help me to overcome the tangible/intangible dualism by means of a
   holistic view of mind and body, linked through habit.

   Next Page  Using Merleau-Ponty and phenomenology for heritage
   studies.
     * About
     * Latest Posts

   Valeria Valeria Valeria
   Valeria
   Hi - I'm Dr Valeria Lo Iacono and I am a dance researcher with a PhD in
   dance as a form of living heritage. I also teach belly dance and love
   to travel to discover new dances around the world. I have worked also
   as an academic and in the UK and in Korea. Thank you for visiting my
   site.

   Valeria Valeria Valeria
   Latest posts by Valeria (see all)
     * 5 Dancers Time Management Tips – Do You Also Struggle to Find Time
       To Dance? - December 3, 2020
     * Belly Dance Around the World by Caitlin E. McDonald – Book Review -
       November 14, 2020
     * Tips on Managing Stage Fright - October 19, 2020

   Facebook0Pin0LinkedIn0

Related posts:

   Dance intro framework Dance intro framework Dance intro framework
   Conceptual Framework Intro (3.1) The debate over what is tangible
   versis intangible heritage. The debate over what is tangible versis
   intangible heritage. The debate over what is tangible versis intangible
   heritage. Tangible vs Intangible Divide Critique (3.2) Phenomenology of
   dance Phenomenology of dance Phenomenology of dance Using
   Merleau-Ponty: Phenomenology for Dance Heritage (3.4) Theoryt of
   practice and dance. Theoryt of practice and dance. Theoryt of practice
   and dance. Using Bourdieu’s Theory of Practice for Dance and Heritage
   Research (3.5) Dance and structuration theory Dance and structuration
   theory Dance and structuration theory Using Giddens Structuration
   Theory for Dance Heritage and Subjectivity vs Objectivity Dichotomy
   (3.6) Cultural heritage model Cultural heritage model Cultural heritage
   model Moving to a Model of Living Cultural Heritage (3.7) Dance project
   questions Dance project questions Dance project questions
   Dance/Heritage Research Questions and Summary (3.8)
   Search for: ____________________ Search
   Dr Valeria Lo Iacono banner
   Dance research and theory table of contents
   Dance PhD references
     * Tahia Carioca belly dancer Tahia Carioca belly dancer Tahia Carioca
       Bint al Balad Laban Movements Analysis (5.3.1)
     * Raqs sharqi in the United States and its history. Raqs sharqi in
       the United States and its history. USA and the History of Raqs
       Sharqi Belly Dance from the 1960s (5.4.1. Continued)
     * Dance as living cultural heritage Dance as living cultural heritage
       Beyond Binarism: Exploring a Model of Living Cultural Heritage for
       Dance
     * Laban research for dancing Laban research for dancing Laban
       Movements Analysis of Belly Dancers from the 2000s (5.7.9)

   Valeria of world dance heritage Valeria of world dance heritage

   Hi – I’m Dr Valeria Lo Iacono. I have created this site to talk about
   dance heritage around the world. If you love dance, this site is for
   you!

   CONTACT ME

Social Media

   Pinterest Pinterest Facebook Facebook Linkedin Linkedin

Top Posts  Pages

   Books about Dance

   Dance Research

   Managing Stage Fright

Newsletter

   First Name ____________________

   Last Name ____________________

   Email address: ____________________

   Sign up
   Leave this field empty if you're human: ____________________
     * Time management for dancers Time management for dancers 5 Dancers
       Time Management Tips – Do You Also Struggle to Find Time To Dance?
     * Belly dance around the world book review Belly dance around the
       world book review Belly Dance Around the World by Caitlin E.
       McDonald – Book Review
     * Solo dancer Solo dancer Tips on Managing Stage Fright

   Copyright © 2015 to 2023 WorldDanceheritage.org | Privacy Policy | As
   an Amazon Associate I earn from qualifying purchases.</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-49">
<text>   ASP assistance scolaire personnalisée
   un partenariat [logo-RDE.svg?1585573849]
   [logo-maif.svg?1585573849]

   (BUTTON) Toggle navigation
   (BUTTON) Terminale
     * Petite section
     * Moyenne section
     * Grande section
     * CP
     * CE1
     * CE2
     * CM1
     * CM2
     * 6^e
     * 5^e
     * 4^e
     * 3^e
     * Seconde
     * Première
     * Première STMG
     * Première ST2S
     * Terminale
     * Terminale STMG
     * Terminale STI2D
     * Terminale ST2S

   (BUTTON) Spécialité anglais
     * Philosophie
     * Histoire
     * Géographie
     * Anglais
     * Spécialité anglais
     * Spécialité SES
     * Spécialité SVT
     * Spécialité mathématiques
     * Spécialité physique-chimie
     * Grand oral
     * Spécialité Histoire-géo.-Géopolitique.-Sciences politiques
     * Enseignement scientifique

   (BUTTON) Révisions Réviser le cours
     * Programme Consulter le programme
     * Révisions Réviser le cours
     * Sujets du bac Travailler sur des sujets du bac
     * Méthodologie Consulter la méthodologie

     * Accueil
     * Se connecter
     * Créer un compte

   Notion précédente

Ancrage et héritage

   Notion suivante
   Nouveau message
   Spécialité anglais - Réviser le cours
   Ancrage et héritage
   Destinataire : []
     __________________________________________________________________

   Message :
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   (BUTTON) Envoyer le message
   Message envoyé avec succès ! Envoyer un nouveau message
   t_speang_08_________ T___________________ specialite-anglais__
   student_____________
   Signaler une erreur
   Spécialité anglais - Réviser le cours
   Ancrage et héritage
   Vous avez repéré une erreur, une faute d'orthographe, une réponse
   erronée... Signalez-nous la et nous nous chargerons de la corriger.
   Description du problème :
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   (BUTTON) Signaler le problème
   Problème signalé avec succès ! Signaler un autre problème
   ____________________ ____________________
   Imprimer
   Spécialité anglais - Réviser le cours
   Ancrage et héritage
   Choisir ce que vous souhaitez imprimer :
   Vous devez sélectionner au moins une valeur.
   [X] La fiche
   [ ] Les exercices
   [ ] Le corrigé
   Imprimer
   Revoir la notion Notion
   Faire les exercices Exercices
   précédent1[1] suivant
   The English-speaking world has known numerous waves of immigration and
   its territory has been built through generations of people coming from
   different regions of the world. A legacy, an origin, roots are most of
   the time a subject of pride and of recognition. They claim their sense
   of belonging, they assert their cultural and ethnic origins.; This is
   patriotism, that is to say a love and a respect for their homeland.

Celebration of a legacy

   Many communities, many populations indeed celebrate their cultural
   heritage through literature, art, sports, traditions, food, even their
   daily routine and gestures: each difference, each particularity can be
   a proof of their singularity.
   For instance, Walter Scott, in his novels and poems, such as Rob Roy or
   Ivanhoe, enhances the national narrative. Through his characters, he
   pays tribute to his homeland, Scotland, using the great figures of the
   nation to put forward the pride of being a Scot, of having a Scottish
   lineage. This was shown in the movie Braveheart by Mel Gibson when he
   extols the merits of William Wallace who became the hero of the nation.
   The recognition of a Scottish spirit is also expressed in cultural
   movements like the Celtic Revival, a variety of movements and
   traditions in the 19^th and 20^th centuries that saw a renewed interest
   in aspects of Celtic culture. Artists and writers drew on the contents
   of Gaelic literature or Welsh-language literature. Traditions like the
   Highland Games can also be a proof of an assertion of a certain
   heritage: it aims at celebrating the Scottish culture through sport. It
   consists in watching bagpipes players parading, people wearing kilts,
   tug of war, toss the caber, etc.

A memorial heritage

   This legacy is also prominent through the construction for the
   preservation of a memorial heritage, passed on from one generation to
   another, a beacon of knowledge whose aim is to enlighten the world,
   with architecture, culture, art or nature The preservation of the great
   national parks in the USA like Yellowstone for example, are part of the
   heritage that needs to be kept intact in order to show to the future
   populations the grandeur of a nation and the beauty of a country; that
   is why the park rangers were created.
   Furthermore, in the United Kingdom, organizations like the National
   Trust still exist, and commemoration days like the Poppy Day are
   preserved. They are landmarks, or milestones in the History and the
   culture of a country. It is even more important for the immigrant
   communities as it helps them maintain a link with their homeland while
   enriching the culture of the country hosting them. This is what we can
   find in events like the Notting Hill Festival in London. It celebrates
   and illustrates multiculturalism in the UK. We can refer to Columbus
   Day in the US that is quite controversial because it only shows one
   aspect of the American culture while putting aside another, that of the
   natives and their longing to have their Indigenous Day. Through the
   celebration of their origins, we can frankly wonder if the idea of
   multiculturalism is at stake in the UK and in the USA.

Celebration as a fight

   Besides, this celebration can go beyond a simple claim and can rapidly
   become a fight, a struggle to defend a territory or a border or to
   preserve a threatened heritage or culture as is the case with Native
   populations or minorities. In fact, the Stolen Generation in Australia
   greatly harmed the Aborigine culture. White people had indeed
   orchestrated an organized abduction, consisting in taking the Aborigine
   children away from their families to place them in white institutions
   with the aim of assimilating and converting them to Christianize: it
   was a way to "whiten" them and to make this native population
   disappear. The same happened with other native populations, such as the
   Maoris in New Zealand, the Native Americans in the USA, the Inuit in
   Greenland and in Canada, for whom the respect of their cultural and
   environmental heritage is a question of survival.
   Closer to us, the fight between Northern Ireland and The Republic of
   Ireland concerning their border and their territories is quite
   symptomatic of this notion of cultural anchoring. The period of the
   Troubles has indeed marked the landscape and the spirits of many Irish
   men and women since each one of them had a member of their family
   touched, wounded or even killed during this conflict for the
   reunification of the two Irelands. Songs like Bloody Sunday by U2 or
   Zombie by the Cranberries or even Nothing compares by Sinead O'Connor
   are examples of the mounting tension between the protestants and the
   Catholics, a tension that is still perceptible nowadays. It has become
   a matter of pride and territory and neither side wants to retreat since
   it would mean the end of their dreams and the end of their identity.
   The identification of a territory is essential for many artists or
   writers who spend much of their time and career representing their
   homeland, their mother country, whether to praise it through odes and
   eulogies or to give a nostalgic if not critical vision. For instance,
   Willa Cather in My Antonia relates the toughness and the determination
   of pioneers and the nostalgia linked to this past. It is the story of a
   young orphan, Jim Burden (Burden like having a weight on his shoulders)
   who goes to live in the great plains of Nebraska with his grandparents.
   Once there, he meets the elder daughter of a Czech family, Antonia and
   the novel follows the life of these two characters while describing the
   way America was built by the first immigrants and pioneers.

Withdrawing into ourselves?

   Actually, claiming a part of the territory and asserting our cultural
   origin can lead to some polemics, and can make people stray from their
   mainstream path. It can even lead to xenophobia or to people
   withdrawing into their shells. We can for instance allude to the
   confederate legacy in the southern states of the USA, a legacy that is
   symbolized by what happened in Charlottesville a couple of years ago.
   Afro- Americans and Civil Rights activists wanted to remove the statue
   of General Lee, the hero of the Confederacy during the Civil War. This
   figure was indeed controversial because it still symbolizes a period
   when slavery was tolerated and accepted in the southern states;
   therefore, it still reinforces the idea of a rampant racism. White
   supremacists refused to remove the statue and it ended with a
   confrontation between the KKK and the black activists that resulted in
   the killing of a young lawyer who was run over by a racist lunatic.
   We can also quote all the events that are linked to the Brexit which
   was a way for the conservatives and the Ukip (the far-right movement
   led by Nigel Farage in the UK) to preserve their insularity, their
   singularity and above all their identity and national sovereignty.
   Exercice n°1
   Are these sentences true or false according to the text, or is there no
   information in the text?
   Faites glisser les étiquettes dans les zones prévues à cet effet.
   No information
   False
   True
   English-speaking countries have witnessed very little immigration and
   have remained closed to the world.
   imcAnswer1?
   Culture heritage is often used to celebrate a region's identity.
   imcAnswer2|imcAnswer3|imcAnswer5?
   The purpose of a memorial heritage is to help the rest of the world
   aspire to greater cultural values.
   imcAnswer2|imcAnswer3|imcAnswer5?
   The cultural heritage of the Maoris is the same as that of the Inuit.
   imcAnswer4?
   Cultural heritage can cause problems when people want to assert their
   right to it.
   imcAnswer2|imcAnswer3|imcAnswer5?
   Valider (BUTTON) Refaire l'exercice (BUTTON) Enlever la correction
   (BUTTON) Montrer la correction
   (BUTTON) Revoir mes derniers choix (BUTTON) Toggle Dropdown
   Exercice n°2
   What does the writer mean by ”Traditions like the Highland Games can
   also be a proof of an assertion of a certain heritage…“?
   Cochez la bonne réponse.
   (*) The Highland Games are traditional sports that the community
   enjoys.
   ( ) Communities need to have more sports competitions to demonstrate
   their cultural identity.
   ( ) Community-based festivals and competitions are the best way to
   assert their heritage.
   ( ) ok It is through competitions like the Highland Games that a
   cultural identity can be confirmed.
   Valider (BUTTON) Refaire l'exercice (BUTTON) Enlever la correction
   (BUTTON) Montrer la correction
   (BUTTON) Revoir mes derniers choix (BUTTON) Toggle Dropdown
   Exercice n°3
   What does the writer mean by ”It has become a matter of pride and
   territory and neither side wants to retreat since it would mean the end
   of their dreams and the end of their identity“?
   Cochez la bonne réponse.
   (*) Both sides are willing to compromise on their respective cultural
   positions.
   ( ) Cultural heritage is not linked to the pride of their history or
   territory.
   ( ) Cultural heritage can enable members of a community to dream.
   ( ) ok Giving up on one's cultural heritage could lead to its
   extinction.
   Valider (BUTTON) Refaire l'exercice (BUTTON) Enlever la correction
   (BUTTON) Montrer la correction
   (BUTTON) Revoir mes derniers choix (BUTTON) Toggle Dropdown
   Exercice n°4
   How do you understand the assertion that ”We can also quote all the
   events that are linked to the Brexit which was a way for the
   conservatives and the Ukip (the far-right movement led by Nigel Farage
   in the UK) to preserve their insularity, their singularity and above
   all their identity and national sovereignty“?
   Cochez la bonne réponse.
   (*) Nigel Farage is proud to be European and wants to fight for its
   cultural identity.
   ( ) Brexit means that Britain can remain open to outside cultural
   influences.
   ( ) Events such as Brexit mean that liberal voters can also maintain
   their cultural heritage.
   ( ) ok Major political events can also be considered as symbols of
   cultural assertion and preservation.
   Valider (BUTTON) Refaire l'exercice (BUTTON) Enlever la correction
   (BUTTON) Montrer la correction
   (BUTTON) Revoir mes derniers choix (BUTTON) Toggle Dropdown
   Nouveau message
   Spécialité anglais - Réviser le cours
   Ancrage et héritage
   Destinataire : []
     __________________________________________________________________

   Message :
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   (BUTTON) Envoyer le message
   Message envoyé avec succès ! Envoyer un nouveau message
   t_speang_08_________ T___________________ specialite-anglais__
   student_____________
   Signaler une erreur
   Spécialité anglais - Réviser le cours
   Ancrage et héritage
   Vous avez repéré une erreur, une faute d'orthographe, une réponse
   erronée... Signalez-nous la et nous nous chargerons de la corriger.
   Description du problème :
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   (BUTTON) Signaler le problème
   Problème signalé avec succès ! Signaler un autre problème
   ____________________ ____________________
   Imprimer
   Spécialité anglais - Réviser le cours
   Ancrage et héritage
   Choisir ce que vous souhaitez imprimer :
   Vous devez sélectionner au moins une valeur.
   [X] La fiche
   [ ] Les exercices
   [ ] Le corrigé
   Imprimer
   []

   L'assistance scolaire personnalisée utilise des cookies pour vous
   offrir le meilleur service (en savoir plus) . En continuant la
   navigation vous acceptez l'utilisation de ceux-ci. (BUTTON) Continuer

   un partenariat [logo-RDE.svg?1585573849]
   [logo-maif.svg?1585573849]
   Nos sites
   Mon espace éducation
   Cap Concours
   Il était une histoire
   Apprendre à porter secours
   La quinte juste
   Les solutions éducatives MAIF
   Le fonds MAIF pour l'éducation
   L'espace enseignant MAIF

   Informations légales Contact © 2000-2024, rue des écoles</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-5">
<text>   Skip to:
     * Search
     * Global navigation
     * Site navigation
     * Content

School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering Bulletin 2019-2020

Indiana University

Search

   ___________ GO

     * (*)   IU Bulletins
     * ( )   IU

     * Overview
     * Undergraduate
     * Graduate
     * Organizations  Services
     * Policies  Procedures
     * Faculty

     * Admission
     * Courses
          + Computer Science
          + Engineering
          + Informatics
          + Information and Library Science
     * Degree Programs
          + BS in Computer Science
               o Software Engineering
               o Data Science Specialization
               o Security Specialization
          + BS in Informatics
               o Media Cognate
               o Economics Cognate
          + BS in Intelligent Systems Engineering
               o Computer Engineering/Cyber-Physical Systems Concentration
               o Bachelor of Science in Intelligent Systems Engineering
               o Bioengineering Concentration
               o Nanoscale Systems Engineering Concentration
          + Certificates  Minors
          + Concurrent/Sequential Baccalaureate Degrees

   SICE » Undergraduate » Courses » Informatics

Undergraduate Programs

Courses

Informatics

     * INFO-I 101 Introduction to Informatics (4 cr.) Problem solving with
       information technology; introductions to information
       representation, relational databases, system design, propositional
       logic, cutting-edge technologies: CPU, operation systems, networks;
       laboratory emphasizing information technology including Web page
       design, word processing, databases, using tools available on
       campus. Credit not given for both INFO-I 101 and H 101.

     * INFO-H 101 Introduction to Informatics, Honors (4 cr.) Honors
       version of  INFO-I 101. Problem solving with information
       technology; introductions to information representation, relational
       databases, system design, propositional logic, cutting-edge
       technologies: CPU, operation systems, networks; laboratory
       emphasizing information technology including Web page design, word
       processing, databases, using tools available on campus. Credit not
       given for both INFO-H 101 and I 101.

     * INFO-I 110 Basic Tools of Informatics I—Programming Concepts
       (1.5 cr.) CSCI-A 110, A 111, or equivalent computing experience
       recommended. Introduction to programming for users of computer
       systems. Emphasis on problem-solving techniques. An eight-week
       lecture and laboratory course. Cross-listed with CSCI-A 112. Credit
       not given for both INFO-I 110 and CSCI-A 112.

     * INFO-I 111 Basic Tools of Informatics II—Introduction to Databases
       (1.5 cr.) CSCI-A 110, A 111, or equivalent computing experience
       recommended. Introduction to database design concepts. Entering and
       modifying data, accessing data using visual tools and SQL, and
       building database applications using forms and application
       development tools. Emphasis on problem-solving techniques. An
       eight-week lecture and laboratory course. Credit not given for both
       INFO-I 111 and CSCI-A 114.

     * INFO-I 123 Data Fluency (3 cr.) Data is big. Data is everywhere.
       How can we possibly be expected to keep up in a world full of data,
       much of which is data about ourselves? This class provides
       fundmental skills for the 21st century: understanding data,
       extracting knowledge from data, generating predictions from data
       and presenting data.

     * INFO-I 130 Introduction to Cybersecurity (1 cr.) P: INFO-I 101.
       This course introduces students to cybersecurity. The course will
       primarily focus on introduction to three core areas (technical
       aspects of security, organizational aspects of security, and legal
       aspects of security). Through examples of security problems in real
       life, this course will illuminate fundamental ideas and concepts of
       information security. An eight-week course.

     * INFO-I 201 Mathematical Foundations of Informatics (4 cr.)
       P: INFO-I 101 and (MATH-M 118 or A 118 or S 118 or V 118 or (MATH-D
       116 and D 117)). An introduction to methods of analytical,
       abstract, and critical thinking; deductive reasoning; and logical
       and mathematical tools used in information sciences. The topics
       include propositional and predicate logic, natural deduction proof
       system, sets, functions and relations, proof methods in
       mathematics, mathematical induction, and graph theory. Credit not
       given for both INFO-I 201 and H 201.

     * INFO-H 201 Mathematical Foundations of Informatics, Honors (4 cr.)
       P: INFO-I 101 and (MATH-M 118 or A 118 or S 118 or V 118 or (MATH-D
       116 and D 117)). Honors version of INFO-I 201. An introduction to
       methods of analytical, abstract, and critical thinking; deductive
       reasoning; and logical and mathematical tools used in information
       sciences. The topics include propositional and predicate logic,
       natural deduction proof system, sets, functions and relations,
       proof methods in mathematics, mathematical induction, and graph
       theory. Credit not given for both INFO-H 201 and I 201.

     * INFO-I 202 Social Informatics (3 cr.) P: INFO-I 101. Introduction
       to key social research perspectives and literatures on the use of
       information and communication technologies. Discusses current
       topics such as information ethics, relevant legal frameworks,
       popular and controversial uses of technology (for example,
       peer-to-peer file sharing), digital divides, and so on. Outlines
       research methodologies for social informatics. Credit not given for
       both INFO-I 202 and H 202.

     * INFO-H 202 Social Informatics, Honors (3 cr.) P: INFO-I 101. Honors
       version of INFO-I 202. Introduction to key social research
       perspectives and literatures on the use of information and
       communication technologies. Discusses current topics such as
       information ethics, relevant legal frameworks, popular and
       controversial uses of technology (for example, peer-to-peer file
       sharing), digital divides, and so on. Outlines research
       methodologies for social informatics. Credit not given for both
       INFO-H 202 and I 202.

     * INFO-I 210 Information Infrastructure I (4 cr.) P: INFO-I 201 or
       CSCI-C 241. The software architecture of information systems. Basic
       concepts of systems and applications programming. Credit not given
       for both INFO-I 210 and H 210.

     * INFO-H 210 Information Infrastructure I, Honors (4 cr.) P: INFO-I
       201 or CSCI-C 241. Honors version of INFO-I 210. The software
       architecture of information systems. Basic concepts of systems and
       applications programming. Credit not given for both INFO-H 210 and
       I 210.

     * INFO-I 211 Information Infrastructure II (4 cr.) P: INFO-I 210 or
       CSCI-C 200 or C 211. The systems architecture of distributed
       applications. Advanced programming, including an introduction to
       the programming of graphical systems. Credit not given for both
       INFO-I 211 and H 211.

     * INFO-H 211 Information Infrastructure II, Honors (4 cr.) P: INFO-I
       210 or CSCI-C 200 or C 211. Honors version of  INFO-I 211. The
       systems architecture of distributed applications. Advanced
       programming, including an introduction to the programming of
       graphical systems. Credit not given for both INFO-H 211 and I 211.

     * INFO-I 222 The Information Society (3 cr.) In this course, students
       will learn to think critically about what it means to live in an
       "Information Society." From printing press to telephone to computer
       to the Internet, they will explore the history and social
       implications of the various information revolutions that shaped
       contemporary commercial, scientific, organizational, political
       life.

     * INFO-I 230 Analytical Foundations of Security (3 cr.) P: INFO-I
       101. This course will enable students to reevaluate and
       conceptualize material learned in discrete courses to consider the
       topics from their perspective of security. For example, computer
       system basics such as hardware (CPUs, memory) and software are
       reconsidered from the perspective of how their interactions create
       vulnerabilities. Vulnerabilities that combine standard hardware and
       software configurations will be examined because they illuminate
       both security and computer networks. Operating systems and file
       systems are examined from the perspective of access control,
       permissions, and availability of system services.

     * INFO-I 231 Introduction to the Mathematics of Cybersecurity (3 cr.)
       INFO-I 101 and I 201 recommended. The goal of this course is for
       students to be introduced to the basic mathematical tools used in
       modern cybersecurity. The course covers introductory mathematical
       material from a number of disparate fields including probability
       theory, analysis of algorithms, complexity theory, number theory,
       and group theory. Credit not given for both INFO-I 231 and CSCI-C
       231.

     * INFO-I 300 HCI/Interaction Design (3 cr.) P: INFO- I 202 or I 222.
       The analysis of human factors and the design of computer
       application interfaces. A survey of current HCI designs with an eye
       toward what future technologies will allow. The course will
       emphasize learning HCI based on implementation and testing
       interfaces. Credit not given for both INFO-I 300 and H 300.

     * INFO-H 300 HCI/Interaction Design, Honors (3 cr.) P: INFO- I 202 or
       I 222. Honors version of INFO-I 300. The analysis of human factors
       and the design of computer application interfaces. A survey of
       current HCI designs with an eye toward what future technologies
       will allow. The course will emphasize learning HCI based on
       implementation and testing interfaces. Credit not given for both
       INFO-H 300 and I 300.

     * INFO-I 301 Presentations for IT Professionals (3 cr.) Must be a
       SICE major. Students present several different types of
       presentations and engage in developing these "21st Century skills"
       for their future. The course utilizes an open studio format that
       allows students to explore public speaking to better prepare for
       future educational and professional presentations.

     * INFO-I 303 Organizational Informatics (3 cr.) P: INFO-I 101.
       Examines the various needs, uses, and consequences of information
       in organizational contexts. Topics include organizational types and
       characteristics, functional areas and business processes,
       information-based products and services, the use of and redefining
       the role of information technology, the changing character of work
       life and organizational practices, sociotechnical structures, and
       the rise and transformation of information-based industries.

     * INFO-I 308 Information Representation (3 cr.) P: INFO-I 201 and
       (INFO-I 210 or CSCI-C 200 or C 211). The basic structure of
       information representation in digital information systems. Begins
       with low-level computer representations such as common character
       and numeric encodings. Introduces formal design and query languages
       through Entity Relationship Modeling, the Relational Model, XML,
       and XHTML. Laboratory topics include SQL and XPath querying. Credit
       not given for both INFO-I 308 and H 308.

     * INFO-H 308 Information Representation, Honors (3 cr.) P: INFO-I 201
       and (INFO-I 210 or CSCI-C 211 or C 200). Honors version of  INFO-I
       308. The basic structure of information representation in digital
       information systems. Begins with low-level computer representations
       such as common character and numeric encodings. Introduces formal
       design and query languages through Entity Relationship Modeling,
       the Relational Model, XML, and XHTML. Laboratory topics include SQL
       and XPath querying. Credit not given for both INFO-H 308 and I 308.

     * INFO-I 310 Multimedia Arts and Technology (3 cr.) P: INFO-I 300.
       The study of the evolution of media arts and underlying principles
       of communication. Application development paradigms in current
       practice.

     * INFO-I 311 Application Development (3 cr.) P: INFO-I 210 or CSCI-C
       200 or C 211. This undergraduate course uses a professional
       development environment to teach advanced programming skills using
       an object oriented programming language. Topics include primitive
       data types, mathematical functions, string manipulation, arrays,
       logical statements, loops, methods, classes, inheritance,
       debugging, exception handling, graphical user interfaces (GUIs),
       and version control software.

     * INFO-I 320 Distributed Systems and Collaborative Computing (3 cr.)
       INFO-I 211 recommended. An introductory treatment of distributed
       systems and programming. Topics range from the distributed and
       object models of computation to advanced concepts such as remote
       method invocations, object brokers, object services, open systems,
       and future trends for distributed information systems.

     * INFO-I 330 Legal and Social Informatics of Security (3 cr.)
       P: INFO-I 211 and I 230. This course examines that set of ethical
       and legal problems most tightly bound to the issues of information
       control. The interaction and technology changes, but the core
       issues have remained: privacy, intellectual property, Internet law,
       concepts of jurisdiction, speech anonymity versus accountability,
       and ethical decision making in the network environment.

     * INFO-I 341 Prototyping for Arduino Tools (3 cr.) The course covers
       material culture and literature of the hobby and professional
       electronics design communities with the goal of creating a physical
       prototype that communicates the students' creative and social
       vision. These student prototypes are model systems that embody the
       computational and organizational thinking of working effectively
       within engineering firms.

     * INFO-I 342 Mobile Programming I (3 cr.) P: INFO-I 311. This
       undergraduate course uses a professional development environment to
       teach skills to program applications for mobile devices. Topics
       include graphical user interfaces (GUIs), data management,
       recording and playing back audio and video, location, maps, and
       using text messaging within an application.

     * INFO-I 356 Globalization, Where We Fit In (3 cr.) Globalization
       changes how we work, what we buy, and who we know. Globalization
       involves people working eighty hour weeks in China and receiving
       free state-of-the-art drugs in Africa. Learn about the past,
       present and future of globalization, and what it means for you,
       your job, and your community.

     * INFO-I 360 Web Design (3 cr.) P: INFO-I 101. Hands-on introduction
       to the core standards required for professional front-end web
       design and development (HTML/CSS/Bootstrap). You will create
       websites, plus learn how web content and style work together, how
       to make professional choices about web graphics and layout, and how
       to analyze and critique a website's design and structure.

     * INFO-I 368 Introduction to Network Science (3 cr.) P: INFO-I 211.
       Friends, computers, the Web, and our brain are examples of networks
       that pervade our lives. Network science helps us understand complex
       patterns of connection, interaction, and relationships in many
       complex systems. Students learn essential concepts and core ideas
       of network literacy, and basic tools to handle social and
       information networks.

     * INFO-I 369 Performance Analytics (3 cr.) P: INFO-I 201 and (I 210
       or CSCI-C 200 or C 211). INFO-I 368 recommended. This course will
       review quantitative studies aimed at measuring, predicting and
       understanding performance in social competitive arenas, ranging
       from social media to financial markets, from professional sports to
       scientific and technological innovation.

     * INFO-I 370 Methods for HCC (3 cr.) At least junior standing or
       permission of instructor. UX/UI Design uses a variety of approaches
       for obtaining human-centered information and requirements for the
       design and development of systems and applications. The course
       surveys key methods, current and emergent, in the field of Human
       Computer Interaction and Interaction Design to prepare students for
       a career in IT.

     * INFO-I 371 Chemical Informatics I (1 cr.) Presents basic concepts
       of information representation, storage, and retrieval as they
       pertain to chemistry. The course is designed to give an overview of
       the techniques that make modern chemical informatics systems work.
       Looks at some of the coding techniques that form the basis for
       chemical information retrieval by structures, nomenclature, and
       molecular formulas. Examines various methods of coding for
       visualization of chemical structures and chemical data. In
       addition, some of the major algorithms and techniques used in the
       modern pharmaceutical industry to enhance their research efforts
       are presented in INFO-I 371.

     * INFO-I 372 Molecular Modeling (1 cr.) CHEM-C 341 recommended.
       Molecular modeling and computational chemistry; application of
       quantum mechanics and molecular mechanics to drive structural and
       energetic information about molecules; conformational analysis;
       quantitative structure activity relationships (QSAR) and related
       methods for drug design.

     * INFO-I 390 Undergraduate Independent Study (1-3 cr.) Department
       approval. Independent research based on existing literature or
       original work. A report, in the style of a departmental technical
       report, is required. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit
       hours.

     * INFO-I 391 Internship in Informatics Professional Practice
       (1-3 cr.) Department approval. Students gain professional work
       experience in an industry or research organization setting, using
       skills and knowledge acquired in informatics course work. May be
       repeated for a maximum of 3 credit hours.

     * INFO-I 399 Current Topics in Informatics (1-3 cr.) Variable topic
       course. Emphasis is on new developments and research in
       informatics. May be repeated once with different topic.

     * INFO-I 400 Topics in Informatics (1-3 cr.) Variable topic. Emphasis
       is on new developments and research in informatics. May be repeated
       when topic varies.

     * INFO-H 400 Topics in Informatics, Honors (1-3 cr.) Honors version
       of INFO-I 400. Variable topic. Emphasis is on development and
       research in informatics. May be repeated when topic varies.

     * INFO-I 407 Introduction to Health Informatics (3 cr.) P: INFO-I
       300. This is a combined advanced undergraduate and graduate course
       that provides an introduction to health informatics. By the end of
       the course, students will be able to describe and apply informatics
       methods that improve health and well being. Credit not given for
       both INFO-I 407 and H 407.

     * INFO-H 407 Introduction to Health Informatics, Honors (3 cr.)
       P: INFO-I 300. Honors version of  INFO-I 407. This is a combined
       advanced undergraduate and graduate course that provides an
       introduction to health informatics. By the end of the course,
       student will be able to describe and apply informatics methods that
       improve health and well being. Credit not given for both INFO-H 407
       and I 407.

     * INFO-I 421 Applications of Data Mining (3 cr.) INFO-I 308
       recommended. The course explores the use of data mining techniques
       in different settings, including business and scientific domains.
       The emphasis will be on using techniques instead of developing new
       techniques or algorithms. Students will select, prepare, visualize,
       analyze, and present data that leads to the discovery of novel and
       actionable information.

     * INFO-I 422 Data Visualization (3 cr.) From dashboards in a car to
       cutting-edge scientific papers, we extensively use visual
       representation of data.  As our world becomes increasingly
       connected and digitized and as more decisions are being driven by
       data, data visualization is becoming a critical skill for every
       knowledge worker. In this course we will learn fundamentals of data
       visualization and create visualizations that can provide insights
       into complex datasets.

     * INFO-I 423 Big Data Applications and Analytics (3 cr.) The Big Data
       Applications  Analytics course is an overview course in Data
       Science and covers the applications and technologies (data
       analytics and clouds) needed to process the application data. It is
       organized around rallying cry: Use Clouds running Data Analytics
       Collaboratively processing Big Data to solve problems in
       X-Informatics.  Credit given for only one of INFO-I 423, I 523, or
       ENGR-E 534.

     * INFO-I 424 Big Data Software and Projects (3 cr.) This course
       studies software HPC-ABDS used in either High Performance Computing
       or the open source commercial Big Data cloud computing. The student
       builds analysis systems using this software on clouds and then to
       use it on a project either chosen by student or selected from list
       given by instructor. Credit not given for both INFO-I 424 and I
       524.

     * INFO-I 426 Informatics in Disasters and Emergency Response (3 cr.)
       This course teaches students the skills needed to design and deploy
       informatics technologies in emergency response and disaster
       situations, including practical applications. Specific areas
       include technology design, situational awareness, threat modeling,
       and data science.   Credit not given for both INFO-I 426 and I 516.

     * INFO-I 427 Search Informatics (3 cr.) P: INFO-I 211. Techniques and
       tools to automatically crawl, parse, index, store, and search Web
       information, organizing knowledge that can help meet the needs of
       organizations, communities and individual users. Social and
       business impact of search engine technology. As a project, students
       will build a real search engine and compare it with Google.

     * INFO-I 430 Security for Networked Systems (3 cr.) P: INFO-I 231 or
       CSCI-C 231. This course is an extensive survey of network security.
       The course materials cover threats to information confidentiality,
       integrity, and availability in different Internet layers, and
       defense mechanisms that control these threats. The course also
       provides a necessary foundation on network security, such as
       cryptographic, primitives/protocols, authentication, authorization
       and access control technologies; and hands-on experiences through
       programming assignments and course projects. Credit given for only
       one of INFO-I 430, I 520, or CSCI-B 430.

     * INFO-I 433 Systems  Protocol Security  Information Assurance
       (3 cr.) P: CSCI-C 291 and (INFO-I 231 or CSCI-C 231). This class
       covers the fundamentals of computer security by looking at how
       things can go wrong, and how people can abuse the system. This is a
       matter of creative cheating; to find loopholes and exploit them.
       After students learn how to attack the system, it is possible to
       propose ways to make the system secure. Students will gain a basic
       overview of existing security problems and be exposed to methods
       that can be used to secure against such problems. The course should
       be taken by any one designing, selecting, or using applications in
       which security or privacy plays a role. Credit given for only one
       of INFO-I 433, I 533, or CSCI-B 433.

     * INFO-I 435 Management, Access, and Use of Big and Complex Data
       (3 cr.) Innovation today is emerging from a preponderance of data
       from sensors, social media, and the Internet. This course covers
       knowledge representation, data process, and data management for big
       and complex data. Specific topics include data integration,
       semantics, and provenance; workflows and pipelines; and distributed
       noSQL stores.  Credit not given for both INFO-I 435 and I 535.

     * INFO-I 436 Technology Innovation (3 cr.) This course teaches
       students the process of innovation, specifically in respect to
       technological innovation. Students are required to ideate
       technological concepts given a set of constraints and an
       opportunity space. The focus of the course is on students inventing
       and implementing without considering the commercial potential of
       their innovations. Credit not given for both INFO-I 436 and I 566.

     * INFO-I 437 Design Strategy (3 cr.) Permission of instructor. The
       course requires students to apply "the" design process to better
       understand the factors affecting the success or failure of a design
       beyond the target audience and problem space in order to iterate on
       the design to propose solutions to avoid its failure, a process
       known as strategic design.

     * INFO-I 438 Technology Entrepreneurship (3 cr.) This course will
       teach students the importance of systems and design thinking as
       they relate to building and managing a startup holistically.
       Students will be required to take a business concept from inception
       to implementation, at least to the degree required to have a
       minimum viable product (MVP). Credit not given for both INFO-I 438
       and I 568.

     * INFO-I 440 Human Robot Interaction (3 cr.) This course surveys the
       field of human-robot interaction (HRI), which involves
       understanding how people perceive and respond to robots and
       creating robots that interact naturally with people. We will
       discuss the design, evaluation and societal significance of
       interactive robots from a human-centered perspective through
       readings, discussion and developing HRI prototypes. Credit given
       for only one of INFO-I 440, H 440 or I 540.

     * INFO-H 440 Human Robot Interaction, Honors (3 cr.) This course
       surveys the field of human-robot interaction (HRI), which involves
       understanding how people perceive and respond to robots and
       creating robots that interact naturally with people. We will
       discuss the design, evaluation and societal significance of
       interactive robots from a human-centered perspective through
       readings, discussion and developing HRI prototypes. Credit given
       for only one of INFO-I 440, H 440 or I 540.

     * INFO-I 441 Interaction Design Practice (3 cr.) INFO-I 300
       recommended. Human-computer interaction design (HCID) describes the
       way a person or group accomplishes tasks with a computer—what the
       individual or group does and how the computer responds; what the
       computer does and how the individual or group responds. This course
       is organized around a collection of readings and three design
       projects applying human-computer interaction principles to the
       design, selection, and evaluation of interactive systems.

     * INFO-I 453 Computer and Information Ethics (3 cr.) Ethical and
       professionalization issues that arise in the context of designing
       and using networked information technologies and information
       resources. Examines frameworks for making ethical decisions,
       emergent technologies and their ethical implications,
       information/computer professionalism. Topics include privacy,
       intellectual property, cybercrime, games, social justice, and codes
       of professional ethics.

     * INFO-I 468 Advanced Network Science (3 cr.) P: INFO-I 368. Friends,
       computers, the Web, and our brain are examples of networks that
       pervade our lives. Network science helps us understand complex
       patterns of connection, interaction, and relationships in many
       complex systems. Students learn about networks analytic tools,
       using increasingly complex models and data from social,
       infrastructure, and information networks.

     * INFO-I 469 Collective Intelligence (3 cr.) This course examines the
       phenomenon of Collective Intelligence from a computational
       perspective, with theory and applications in the biological,
       cultural, and economic domains. We will, in particular, focus on
       the role of social media which is enabling collective intelligence
       applications at previously unimagined scales.

     * INFO-I 485 Bioinspired Computing (3 cr.) P: INFO-I 211 or CSCI-C
       212. Biological organisms cope with the demands of their
       environments using solutions quite unlike the traditional
       human-engineered approaches to problem solving. Biological systems
       tend to be adaptive, reactive, and distributed. Bio-inspired
       computing is a field devoted to tackling complex problems using
       computational methods modeled after design principles encountered
       in nature. Credit not given for both INFO-I 485 and I 585.

     * INFO-I 486 Artificial Life (3 cr.) Artificial Life is a broad
       discipline encompassing the origins, modeling, and synthesis of
       natural and artificial living entities and systems. Artificial
       Intelligence, as a discipline, tries to model and understand
       intelligent systems and behavior, typically at the human level.
       Credit not given for both INFO-I 486 and I 586.

     * INFO-I 487 Introduction to Virtual Heritage (3 cr.) This course
       focuses on how digital technology can represent, restore,
       disseminate, and help with analysis of artifacts such as vases,
       furniture, sculpture, monuments, and buildings. Other topics
       covered include the history and methodologies of Virtual Heritage.
       Each semester a different case study will provide the focus for the
       course. Credit not given for both INFO-I 487 and I 587.

     * INFO-I 488 Advanced Topics in Virtual Heritage (3 cr.) This course
       teaches students how to create simulations of complex cultural
       heritage environments such as a room and its furnishings, a
       building, or a settlement. Also covered are the principles of
       restorations of art, technologies to disseminate 3D models, and the
       use of simulations as tools of scientific discovery. Credit not
       given for both INFO-I 488 and I 588.

     * INFO-I 490 Professional Practicum/Internship for Undergraduates
       (0 cr.) Department approval. Provides for participation in
       professional training and internship experience.

     * INFO-I 491 Capstone Project Internship (1-6 cr.) P: INFO-I 211 and
       I 308. Department approval. Students put their informatics
       education in practice through the development of a substantial
       project while working in a professional information technology
       environment. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours.

     * INFO-I 492 Senior Thesis (3 cr.) All required core courses must be
       completed. Department approval. The senior student prepares and
       presents a thesis: a substantial, typically multichapter paper
       based on a well-planned research or scholarly project, as
       determined by the student and a sponsoring faculty member.

     * INFO-I 493 Senior Thesis (3 cr.) P: INFO-I 492. Department
       approval. The senior student prepares and presents a thesis: a
       substantial, typically multichapter paper based on a well-planned
       research or scholarly project, as determined by the student and a
       sponsoring faculty member.

     * INFO-I 494 Design and Development of an Information System (3 cr.)
       P: All required core courses must be completed. Students work on
       capstone projects in supervised teams. They select an appropriate
       project (preferably based on cognate) and then learn to develop a
       plan that leads to success. Teamwork, communication, and
       organizational skills are emphasized in a real-world-style
       environment. Credit not given for both INFO-I 494 and H 494.

     * INFO-H 494 Design and Development of an Information System, Honors
       (3 cr.) P: All required core courses must be completed. All
       required core courses must be completed. Honors version of INFO-I
       494. Students work on capstone projects in supervised teams. They
       select an appropriate project (preferably based on cognate) and
       then learn to develop a plan that leads to success. Teamwork,
       communication, and organizational skills are emphasized in a
       real-world-style environment. Credit not given for both INFO-H 494
       and I 494.

     * INFO-I 495 Design and Development of an Information System (3 cr.)
       P: INFO-I 494. Students work on capstone projects in supervised
       teams. They select an appropriate project (preferably based on
       cognate) and then learn to develop a plan that leads to success.
       Teamwork, communication, and organizational skills are emphasized
       in a real-world-style environment. Credit not given for both INFO-I
       495 and H 495.

     * INFO-H 495 Design and Development of an Information System, Honors
       (3 cr.) P: INFO-I 494. Honors version of INFO-I 495. Students work
       on capstone projects in supervised teams. They select an
       appropriate project (preferably based on cognate) and then learn to
       develop a plan that leads to success. Teamwork, communication, and
       organizational skills are emphasized in a real-world-style
       environment. Credit not given for both INFO-H 495 and I 495.

     * INFO-H 498 Honors Seminar (1-3 cr.) Junior or senior major in INFO
       with GPA at least 3.3 or permission of instructor. A survey of
       faculty research in computer related fields with different
       professors discussing their research each week. May be repeated for
       a maximum of 6 credit hours.

     * INFO-I 499 Readings and Research in Informatics (1-3 cr.)
       Department approval. Independent readings and research related to a
       topic of special interest to the student. Written report required.
       May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours for any combination
       of INFO-I 499 and H 499.

     * INFO-H 499 Readings and Research in Informatics, Honors (1-3 cr.)
       Department approval. Honors version of INFO-I 499. Independent
       readings and research related to a topic of special interest to the
       student. Written report required. May be repeated for a maximum of
       6 credit hours for any combination of INFO-I 499 and H 499.

     * INFO-T 100 Topics in Informatics Technology (1-3 cr.) Variable
       topic. The course serves as an introduction to a specific
       information technology in a hands-on setting. Emphasis is on
       problem solving techniques using technology. Credit hours may not
       be applied toward satisfying major requirements in the School of
       Informatics, Computing, and Engineering.

     * INFO-Y 100 Exploring Informatics and Computer Science (1 cr.)
       Technology is everywhere and how it relates to the world today is
       very important to the future. The objective of this course is to
       offer students an opportunity to explore the many tracks within the
       fields of Informatics, Computer Science, and Engineering while also
       learning about the multiple careers available to students majoring
       in the fields. Emphasis will be placed on the various ways
       technology affects the work world and how students can tailor a
       major to their individual interests. The course will promote a
       hands-on, interactive and self-reflective course environment.
       Offered as either a six or eight week course.

     * INFO-Y 101 Technology Leadership and Innovation (1.5 cr.) This
       course will focus on developing student leaders by providing
       resources and tools to empower them in setting goals, teamwork,
       communication, and decision-making skills. Students will have an
       opportunity to interact and develop relationships with School of
       Informatics and Computing faculty, staff, alumni, upper class
       students, and conduct research.

     * INFO-Y 102 Technology Leadership and Innovation II (1.5 cr.)
       P: INFO-Y 101. The focus of this course will be on developing you
       as a professional and a future leader. Topics addressed will
       include professional identity development; working in a diverse
       team; leadership in a global/multinational workforce; the role of
       social media; and the process and development of professional
       mentor relationships.

     * INFO-Y 395 Career Development for Informatics Majors (1 cr.) Helps
       students develop skills and knowledge to successfully pursue a
       career search, both at the time of graduation and as they progress
       through their careers. The course covers techniques and strategies
       to make the job search more efficient and effective. An eight-week
       course. Credit not given for both INFO-Y 395 and CSCI-Y 395.

Academic Bulletins

     * Indiana University
     * IU Bloomington

   Copyright © 2024 The Trustees of Indiana University, Copyright
   Complaints</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-50">
<text>   #alternate alternate alternate

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-TX5H48V

   newslink

   MORNING JOURNAL×
     * News
          + Local News
          + Police News
          + Court News
          + Obituaries
          + Ohio News
          + National News
          + International News
     * Sports
          + Local Sports
          + Sports Columns
          + Ohio Sports
          + National Sports
     * Opinion
          + Editorials
          + Letters to the Editor
     * Life
          + Engagements
          + Weddings
          + Anniversaries
          + Births/Birthdays
     * Obituaries
     * Classifieds
     * Jobs
     * Garage Sales
     * Contact Information
          + Contact Us
          + Subscribe
          + Advertise
          + Terms of Service
     * Submit News
     * Public Notices
          + Browse notices
          + Place a notice

   ____________________

   homepage logo

     * News
     * Sports
     * Opinion
     * Life
     * Obituaries
     * Classifieds
     * Jobs
     * Legal Notices

     * [search_icon_black.png]
     * SUBSCRIBE

   ____________________

   homepage logo

     * January 03, 2024
     * |
     * Today's Paper
     * |
     * Submit News
     * |
     * Subscribe Today
     * |
     * ...

     * Today's Paper
     * |
     * Subscribe Today
     * |
     * ...

Money raised for food insecurity despite low turnout for United Way Hungry
Bowls event

   Local News

   Nov 21, 2023

   [facebook_article_icon.png] [twitter_article_icon.png]
     * [email_icon.png]
     * [print_icon.png]

   Christy Pease and Erin Watson, both of Heritage Thermal, serve up the
   soup at the United Way of Southern Columbiana/Heritage Thermal Hungry
   Bowls fundraiser held at the Salvation Army to raise money for agencies
   supported by United Way to stock their food pantries. (Photo by Kristi
   R. Garabrandt)

   EAST LIVERPOOL — The United Way’s Hungry Bowl fundraising event held in
   conjunction with Heritage Environmental Services to raise money for
   three area agencies supported by United Way had a low turnout last
   week.

   Raymond Wayne, Heritage Thermal, didn’t know whether to attribute the
   low turnout to unseasonably warm weather or other area fundraisers
   being held on the same night.

   The event held at the East Liverpool Salvation Army served for $10 a
   soup kitchen style meal consisting of homemade soups made by United Way
   board members and Heritage Thermal employees and served by staff of
   Heritage Environmental Services along with a bottle of water, a dinner
   roll and cookies to approximately 40 people.

   The event also featured a Chinese auction, with baskets donated by
   Columbiana County commissioners, Heritage Thermal employees and the
   board members for the United Way of Southern Columbiana, which brought
   in approximately $1,000, according to Karen Montgomery, Heritage
   Environmental Services/Heritage Thermal.

   Montgomery noted that the Columbiana County commissioners and Heritage
   Thermal each donated $2,500, bringing the total raised for the event to
   just under $6,000.

   Last year, the fundraiser brought in over $8,000 with many more tickets
   being sold.

   The money raised will be divided among Family  Community Service,
   Community Resource Center and the Salvation Army and will be used by
   each agency to stock their food pantries.

   Those who attended the fundraiser were asked to bring a food donation
   with them. The donated canned goods were given to the Salvation Army
   and some of the perishable leftovers were given to Catholic Charities
   for use in their meal delivery program, Montgomery said.

   “These are just a few of the nine local agencies the United Way of
   Southern Columbiana County supports,” she noted.

   “The United Way would like to thank HTS (Heritage Thermal) employees
   for donating auction items, making soups and assisting at the event,”
   Montgomery said. “A big thank you to those in the community that
   supported the fundraiser by donating or attending. Together we change
   lives and impact communities.”

NEWSLETTER

   Today's breaking news and more in your inbox
   ____________________
   I'm interested in (please check all that apply)
     * [ ] Daily Newsletter
     * [ ] Breaking News
     * [ ] Obituaries

   Are you a paying subscriber to the newspaper? *
     * (*) Yes
     * ( ) No

   ____________________

   Subscribe

COMMENTS

Local News

EP still waiting for long-term health monitoring

   EAST PALESTINE — When a Norfolk Southern train derailed and led to a
   chemical spill and intentional release and ...

Goshen trustees OK Police Fund changes

   GOSHEN TOWNSHIP — Township trustees approved Police Fund changes in its
   final meeting of the year Thursday. ...

Columbiana looks at raising water, sewer rates

   COLUMBIANA — The city is looking into the possibility of raising water
   and sewer rates in the future. City ...

Columbiana PD gets grant for tasers

   COLUMBIANA — The city’s police department has been awarded a grant for
   new tasers. The city was recently ...

   [johnson-2-246x300.jpg]

Bill Johnson to resign Jan. 21 from Congress for YSU presidency

Lisbon BOE bids farewell to two longtime members

   LISBON — When the Lisbon school board meets to reorganize for the new
   year at 5 p.m. Jan. 11, board President ...

     * MOST READ

Man shot in chest in Ellsworth Township

Words for East Liverpool residents

Municipal

COMMUNITY CALENDAR

Salem

County Sheriff

                                   Newsletter

   Today's breaking news and more in your inbox

   ____________________
   I'm interested in (please check all that apply)
     * [ ] Daily Newsletter
     * [ ] Breaking News
     * [ ] Obituaries

   Are you a paying subscriber to the newspaper? *
     * (*) Yes
     * ( ) No

   ____________________

   Subscribe

Starting at $4.39/week.

Subscribe Today

   homepage logo

   twitter icon facebook icon

     * News
          + Local News
          + Obituaries
          + Police News
          + Court News
     * Sports
          + Local Sports
          + Sports Columns
          + Ohio Sports
     * Opinion
          + Editorials
          + Letters to the Editor
     * Life
          + Engagements
          + Weddings
          + Anniversaries
          + Births/Birthdays
     * Contact
          + Submit News
          + Advertise
          + Contact Us

   Copyright © Morning Journal | https://www.morningjournalnews.com | 308
   Maple Street, Lisbon, OH 44432 | 330-424-9541</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-51">
<text>   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-KW3LJ3D

   Skip to main content

   Free standard shipping on all orders

   Routledge Home
   Search ____________________ (BUTTON)
   To hear autocomplete suggestions tab past the search button after
   typing keywords.

     * Shop By Subject
     * New  Bestselling
     * Instructors  Students
     * Professional Practice
     * Publish With Us
     * Sale  Offers

   View All Book Series

BOOK SERIES
     __________________________________________________________________

Key Issues in Cultural Heritage
     __________________________________________________________________

About the Series

   Key Issues in Cultural Heritage is a new and unique series which aims
   to identify interdisciplinary debates within the changing and
   under-theorized field of Heritage Studies and to explore how they
   impact on the practices not only of heritage management and
   conservation, but also the processes of production, consumption and
   engagement with heritage in its many and varied forms. Each volume
   brings together a selection of international contributors and global
   case studies, providing a balance of theoretical and empirical content.
     * Series Titles
     * Authors

23 Series Titles

   AJAX loader
   Per Page
   [12]
   Sort
   [Publication Date]
     __________________________________________________________________

   [X] Include Forthcoming Titles [X]
   Display
   Heritage, Conflict, and Peace-Building
   Forthcoming

   Heritage, Conflict, and Peace-Building

1st Edition

   Intangible Cultural Heritage and Sustainable Development Inside a
   UNESCO Convention

   Intangible Cultural Heritage and Sustainable Development Inside a
   UNESCO Convention

1st Edition

   Toxic Heritage Legacies, Futures, and Environmental Injustice

   Toxic Heritage Legacies, Futures, and Environmental Injustice

1st Edition

   Design and Heritage The Construction of Identity and Belonging

   Design and Heritage The Construction of Identity and Belonging

1st Edition

   Migrant, Multicultural and Diasporic Heritage Beyond and Between
   Borders

   Migrant, Multicultural and Diasporic Heritage Beyond and Between
   Borders

1st Edition

   Urban Heritage in Divided Cities Contested Pasts

   Urban Heritage in Divided Cities Contested Pasts

1st Edition

   World Heritage and Sustainable Development New Directions in World
   Heritage Management

   World Heritage and Sustainable Development New Directions in World
   Heritage Management

1st Edition

   Safeguarding Intangible Heritage Practices and Politics

   Safeguarding Intangible Heritage Practices and Politics

1st Edition

   Emotion, Affective Practices, and the Past in the Present

   Emotion, Affective Practices, and the Past in the Present

1st Edition

   Gender and Heritage Performance, Place and Politics

   Gender and Heritage Performance, Place and Politics

1st Edition

   Intellectual Property, Cultural Property and Intangible Cultural
   Heritage

   Intellectual Property, Cultural Property and Intangible Cultural
   Heritage

1st Edition

   Managing Heritage in Africa Who Cares?

   Managing Heritage in Africa Who Cares?

1st Edition

   Heritage, Conflict, and Peace-Building

Heritage, Conflict, and Peace-Building

1st Edition

   Forthcoming

   Edited By Lucas Lixinski, Yujie Zhu
   April 30, 2024

   Heritage, Conflict, and Peace-Building examines the possibilities
   arising from, and challenges associated with, transforming heritage
   from a casualty of conflict into an opportunity for peacebuilding. The
   contributors to this book, who hail from academia and practice, present
   case studies that shed...
   Intangible Cultural Heritage and Sustainable Development Inside a
   UNESCO Convention

Intangible Cultural Heritage and Sustainable Development: Inside a UNESCO
Convention

1st Edition

   Edited By Chiara Bortolotto, Ahmed Skounti
   December 19, 2023

   Drawing on debates about intangible cultural heritage (ICH)
   safeguarding at the local and international levels, Intangible Cultural
   Heritage and Sustainable Development: Inside a UNESCO Convention,
   explores the theoretical and practical implications of the
   intertwinement between these policy fields...
   Toxic Heritage Legacies, Futures, and Environmental Injustice

Toxic Heritage: Legacies, Futures, and Environmental Injustice

1st Edition

   Edited By Elizabeth Kryder-Reid, Sarah May
   July 21, 2023

   Toxic Heritage addresses the heritage value of contamination and toxic
   sites and provides the first in-depth examination of toxic heritage as
   a global issue. Bringing together case studies, visual essays, and
   substantive chapters written by leading scholars from around the world,
   the volume ...
   Design and Heritage The Construction of Identity and Belonging

Design and Heritage: The Construction of Identity and Belonging

1st Edition

   Edited By Grace Lees-Maffei, Rebecca Houze
   December 30, 2021

   Design and Heritage provides the first extended study of heritage from
   the point of view of design history. Exploring the material objects and
   spaces that contribute to our experience of heritage, the volume also
   examines the processes and practices that shape them. Bringing together
   18 case ...
   Migrant, Multicultural and Diasporic Heritage Beyond and Between
   Borders

Migrant, Multicultural and Diasporic Heritage: Beyond and Between Borders

1st Edition

   Edited By Alexandra Dellios, Eureka Henrich
   July 21, 2020

   Migrant, Multicultural and Diasporic Heritage explores the role
   heritage has played in representing, contesting and negotiating the
   history and politics of ethnic, migrant, multicultural, diasporic or
   ‘other’ heritages in, within, between and beyond nations and national
   boundaries. Containing ...
   Urban Heritage in Divided Cities Contested Pasts

Urban Heritage in Divided Cities: Contested Pasts

1st Edition

   Edited By Mirjana Ristic, Sybille Frank
   October 04, 2019

   Urban Heritage in Divided Cities explores the role of contested urban
   heritage in mediating, subverting and overcoming sociopolitical
   conflict in divided cities. Investigating various examples of
   transformations of urban heritage around the world, the book analyses
   the spatial, social and political...
   World Heritage and Sustainable Development New Directions in World
   Heritage Management

World Heritage and Sustainable Development: New Directions in World Heritage
Management

1st Edition

   Edited By Peter Bille Larsen, William Logan
   July 09, 2018

   In 2015, the General Assembly of State Parties to the World Heritage
   Convention passed a ground-breaking Sustainable Development policy that
   seeks to bring the World Heritage system into line with the UN’s
   sustainable development agenda (UNESCO 2015). World Heritage and
   Sustainable Development ...
   Safeguarding Intangible Heritage Practices and Politics

Safeguarding Intangible Heritage: Practices and Politics

1st Edition

   Edited By Natsuko Akagawa, Laurajane Smith
   June 27, 2018

   The UNESCO Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural
   Heritage came into force in 2006, framing the international and
   national practices and policies associated with intangible cultural
   heritage. This volume critically and reflexively examines these
   practices and policies, providing...
   Emotion, Affective Practices, and the Past in the Present

Emotion, Affective Practices, and the Past in the Present

1st Edition

   Edited By Laurajane Smith, Margaret Wetherell, Gary Campbell
   June 11, 2018

   Emotion, Affective Practices, and the Past in the Present is a response
   to debates in the humanities and social sciences about the use of
   emotion. This timely and unique book explores the ways emotion is
   embroiled and used in contemporary engagements with the past,
   particularly in contexts such as ...
   Gender and Heritage Performance, Place and Politics

Gender and Heritage: Performance, Place and Politics

1st Edition

   Edited By Wera Grahn, Ross J. Wilson
   February 07, 2018

   Gender and Heritage brings together a group of international scholars
   to examine the performance, place and politics of gender within
   heritage. Through a series of case studies, models and assessments, the
   significance of understanding and working with concepts of gender is
   demonstrated as a ...
   Intellectual Property, Cultural Property and Intangible Cultural
   Heritage

Intellectual Property, Cultural Property and Intangible Cultural Heritage

1st Edition

   Edited By Christoph Antons, William Logan
   December 21, 2017

   Intellectual Property, Cultural Property and Intangible Cultural
   Heritage examines various notions of property in relation to intangible
   cultural heritage and discusses how these ideas are employed in rights
   discourses by governments and indigenous and local communities around
   the world. There is ...
   Managing Heritage in Africa Who Cares?

Managing Heritage in Africa: Who Cares?

1st Edition

   Edited By Webber Ndoro, Shadreck Chirikure, Janette Deacon
   August 15, 2017

   Managing Heritage in Africa provides a wide-ranging, up-to-date
   synthesis of heritage management practice in Africa, covering a broad
   spectrum of heritage issues such as archaeology, living traditions,
   sacred sites, heritage of pain (slavery), international conventions
   cultural landscapes, heritage...
     * 1
     * 2
     * 

   1-12 of 23
   AJAX loader

Series Editors

     * Laurajane Smith
       Australian National University
     * Gönül Bozoğlu
       Newcastle University, UK

Attention Authors

   Interested in proposing a book for a book series?

   Learn how to become a Taylor  Francis author »

   Back To Top

   Routledge Logo

   © Informa UK Limited, an Informa Plc company

Contact Us

     * Customer Service
     * Editorial Contacts
     * Sales Contacts
     * Rights and Permissions
     * Become an Affiliate Partner Opens in new tab or window

FAQs

Partners

Customer Resources

     * Authors
     * Booksellers
     * Instructors
     * Librarians
     * Press and Media
     * Professionals
     * Societies and Associations
     * Students

Our Products

     * eBooks
     * eBook+
     * Book Series
     * Online Platforms
     * Open Access Books
     * Focus Shortform Books

About Us

     * About Routledge
     * About Taylor  Francis Opens in new tab or window
     * Taylor  Francis Journals Opens in new tab or window
     * Careers Opens in new tab or window

Blog

Topics

Policies

     * Shipping Information
     * Returns and Cancellations
     * Terms and Conditions
     * Inspection Copies
     * Cookie Policy
     * Accessibility
     * Privacy Policy Opens in new tab or window

SOCIAL NETWORKS

   Facebook - Opens in new tab or window LinkedIn - Opens in new tab or
   window Twitter - Opens in new tab or window YouTube - Opens in new tab
   or window

   We use cookies to improve your website experience. To learn how to
   manage your cookie settings, please see our Cookie Policy. By
   continuing to use the website, you consent to our use of cookies.
   Accept

The country you have selected will result in the following:

     * Product pricing will be adjusted to match the corresponding
       currency.
     * The title Perception will be removed from your cart because it is
       not available in this region.

   (BUTTON) Continue (BUTTON) Cancel</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-52">
<text>   Skip to main content

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-NML9PLL

   Enter your keywords _______________
   Search
   Home
     * Who We Are
          + Our Mission  Values
          + Staff  Board
          + Affiliates
          + Financials
          + Jobs
          + Privacy Policy
     * What We Do
          + World Monuments Watch
          + 2022 World Monuments Watch
          + Featured Projects
          + Explore Sites  Projects
          + News
          + Library
     * Get Involved
          + Contact Us
          + Attend an Event
          + Travel with WMF
          + Jewish Heritage Program
          + Ukraine Heritage Response Fund
          + Heritage from Home
     * Give
          + Support Our Work
          + Membership
          + More Ways to Give
          + International Council
          + Planned Giving
          + Institutional Giving
          + Crisis Response

     * Who We Are
          + Our Mission  Values
          + Staff  Board
          + Affiliates
          + Financials
          + Jobs
          + Privacy Policy
     * What We Do
          + World Monuments Watch
          + 2022 World Monuments Watch
          + Featured Projects
          + Explore Sites  Projects
          + News
          + Library
     * Get Involved
          + Contact Us
          + Attend an Event
          + Travel with WMF
          + Jewish Heritage Program
          + Ukraine Heritage Response Fund
          + Heritage from Home
     * Give
          + Support Our Work
          + Membership
          + More Ways to Give
          + International Council
          + Planned Giving
          + Institutional Giving
          + Crisis Response

   Press Room
   Latest news from World Monuments Fund
   Newsletter
   Monthly updates, directly to your inbox

Stay connected

     * Facebook
     * Twitter
     * YouTube
     * Instagram
     * LinkedIn
     * Contact Us

   View of the Alhambra from a distance, 2011
   Share
   Facebook Twitter Google+ LinkedIn Share
   Blog Post

Looking to the Future: Global Challenges to Cultural Heritage Preservation

   March 03, 2021 | by Jonathan S. Bell, Ph.D.
   View of the Alhambra from a distance, 2011

   In this article from World Monuments Fund's 2021 Watch Magazine, WMF
   Vice President of Programs Jonathan Bell takes stock of our cumulative
   impact over these past five and a half decades and considers how best
   to enhance our efforts protecting and supporting the world’s most
   incredible cultural landscapes, architectural marvels, and places of
   shared significance.

   After decades working to underscore, preserve, and rehabilitate key
   cultural heritage in countries around the world from Albania to
   Zimbabwe, our commitment to our planet’s monuments of cultural
   expression and human ingenuity is as strong as ever. We must, however,
   recognize that the global challenges facing the cultural heritage we
   endeavor to protect have changed and created a new landscape across
   which World Monuments Fund must operate and demonstrate relevance. The
   global pandemic that has plagued the world through most of 2020 has
   drastically changed the way we all work and play.
   An empty San Marco Square in Venice, Italy.
   An empty San Marco Square in Venice, Italy.

   Since the international recognition of the novel coronavirus at the
   beginning of this year, we have witnessed unprecedented changes to the
   interactions between people and places of significance. With fewer
   visits to historic buildings and archaeological sites resulting in a
   dramatic loss of revenue for these places and their adjacent
   communities, the critical link between tourism and local economies has
   become painfully apparent. At the same time, significantly diminished
   travel and sparse crowds have led the way to cleaner air and waterways,
   welcomed frolicking wildlife into the world’s urban centers, and
   replenished the sense of place and idyllic beauty once enjoyed by local
   residents without the canopy of mass tourism.

   Amid the throes of this pandemic, continued police violence toward
   people of color in the United States and the effective organizing of
   the Black Lives Matter movement sparked an unprecedented worldwide
   recognition of painful histories embodied in the statues and monuments
   erected in public squares and before town halls around the world.
   Spurred on by social media networks and covered by traditional media,
   the groundswell call to remove these monuments associated with historic
   injustice has helped showcase that celebrated heritage often represents
   privilege. Some stories are told in stone and bronze for the world to
   see, but many others lack recognition and remain unseen and unheard.
   Rapa Nui National Park on Easter Island, Chile.
   Rapa Nui National Park on Easter Island, Chile.

   While our relationships with our cultural heritage evolved over the
   past year, changing rainfall patterns, intensifying storms, and rising
   temperatures continued to pose challenges. The pervasive nature of
   climate change means that no building, landscape, archaeological site,
   or adjacent community is spared the need to adapt and develop solutions
   to this invisible and unpredictable force. Tied to changing weather
   patterns is an increase in disasters from flooding, sustained high
   winds, unusual temperature extremes, and drought, all of which present
   distinct challenges for the places and communities where World
   Monuments Fund works.

   As we consider the events of this past year and our priorities for the
   future, we recognize that World Monuments Fund must act as an agent of
   change. We remain committed to working with local partners and
   communities to protect the world’s most important places; this is our
   mission. Additionally, we must ensure our impact is not only measured
   in finished projects, but in the cumulative effect of outcomes on some
   of the world’s most pressing challenges. By curating our portfolio of
   projects such that multiple places can develop viable mitigation and
   adaptation strategies to similar challenges and threats, World
   Monuments Fund can employ a multiplier effect that has widespread and
   lasting impact.

   To this end, we have identified three global challenges that will help
   shape our portfolio of projects, focus our resources, and coalesce our
   individual efforts into far-reaching solutions. By helping partners
   develop sound local and regional tourism strategies, we will work to
   mitigate the negative impacts and harness the economic and social
   potential of imbalanced tourism. In strengthening our commitment to
   work with unrecognized heritage places and integrate diverse
   perspectives, we will bolster the role of underrepresented heritage in
   global discussions and preservation decision-making. Through developing
   site-specific solutions to changing weather patterns, we will
   underscore the threat that climate change represents and contribute to
   adaptation strategies around the world.

Imbalanced Tourism

   The adage that “tourism is a doubleedged sword” is well known to
   preservation professionals, since the field has long struggled to
   promote patterns of visitation that can sustainably support heritage
   places with adequate revenue and minimally impact the physical fabric
   or sense of place. As many of us have experienced, popular destinations
   are quickly overrun and the visitor experience significantly diminished
   by large crowds that leave their mark on the monuments, exasperate the
   local community, and support the local economy with mixed results. For
   some places, the promised economic development never comes, as visitors
   are few or inconsistent and revenue may be funneled to external
   entities or local powerbrokers through prepaid packages and foreign
   tour operators. At other locations, tourism leads to rampant growth
   that gentrifies neighborhoods, encourages new development, and forever
   changes the composition of local communities and the character of the
   heritage.

   Courtyard house located at 12 Calle Montero, recently converted into a
   housing cooperative for six families, 2018.
   Courtyard house located at 12 Calle Montero, recently converted into a
   housing cooperative for six families, 2018.

   One strategy lies in developing and coordinating a wide array of
   visitation opportunities at a regional scale, as opposed to focusing on
   individual sites. Such an approach requires working closely with local
   and regional authorities, resident communities, and site managers to
   coordinate decisionmaking and tourism promotion. World Monuments Fund
   is developing this approach at 2020 World Monuments Watch sites
   Bennerley Viaduct (UK) and Canal Nacional (Mexico), working closely
   with local community-based organizations to enhance and highlight
   incredible infrastructure that shapes the landscape and provides a wide
   variety of recreation and tourism opportunities. In the Jewish Mahalla
   of Bukhara (Uzbekistan) and the historic neighborhood of Axerquía in
   Córdoba (Spain), a similar approach at the neighborhood levels will
   help strengthen interest in and visitation of traditional houses and
   streetscapes that epitomize the local vernacular architecture and
   culture.

   Another tactic that has flourished throughout the pandemic is digital
   tourism—experiencing the world’s cultural treasures from the comfort of
   your own home through the marvel of technology. World Monuments Fund is
   integrating digital documentation and the development of virtual
   experiences to raise awareness about the places we work and share the
   wonder and rich history with a broad audience. We have already
   developed interactive online experiences for places like San Pedro
   Apóstol de Andahuaylillas (Peru), as well as an award-winning virtual
   visit to La Garma cave (Spain). This approach not only allows larger
   numbers of people to “visit” these incredible places, but contributes
   to their protection by preventing high-volume tourism that could be
   detrimental to their survival. Altogether, these approaches support the
   development of a more sustainable tourism that not only bolsters
   destinations and resident communities, but also provides for a richer
   and more fulfilling visitor experience. World Monuments Fund will
   continue to work closely with our partners and stakeholders on the
   ground to develop viable visitor management strategies that distribute
   tourism at a regional scale and help reach new audiences and supporters
   of cultural heritage. A commitment to balanced tourism enhances our
   efforts to support the places we work.

Underrepresented Heritage

   As the debate over monuments this year has clearly demonstrated, power
   and privilege are often tied to celebrated cultural heritage. The
   architectural marvels of the past that regale throngs of visitors with
   stories of pageantry and conquest frequently embody rarely recounted
   stories of servitude, subjugation, and exclusion. These are the stories
   of the disempowered communities whose land was stolen, who labored as
   enslaved people, or who paid oppressive taxes to fund the opulence and
   splendor of many feted destinations. The artistic achievement is
   lauded, but the associated sacrifice is often ignored. Despite recent
   efforts at historic sites to interpret these stories and provide a
   richer narrative, diverse perspectives and stories of injustice are
   rarely integrated. Moreover, there are many places of significance that
   do not appear on any sanctioned list and lack broad support for
   protection because they have been sidelined for generations. These
   heritage places hold incredible importance for the communities that
   value them and often represent unique facets of human ingenuity,
   creativity, and artistry that are otherwise unrecognized. Their demise
   would be an irrevocable loss for humanity.

   The Mam Rashan Shrine after destruction by ISIS, 2019.
   The Mam Rashan Shrine after destruction by ISIS, 2019.

   Encouraging inclusion of diverse perspectives and narratives is a
   crucial path forward to recognizing and protecting humanity’s rich
   heritage. The most iconic historic places comprise countless unheard
   stories and unrecognized contributions by disenfranchised communities.
   World Monuments Fund renews our commitment to the heritage of
   underrepresented groups exemplified through previous work in Essaouira
   (Morocco) and with Voices of Alabama (United States). In these
   projects, the narratives of minority communities were recorded and
   disseminated to raise awareness of the significant role their heritage
   plays in local identity. Current projects at the Woolworth Building in
   San Antonio (United States) and the Mam Rashan Shrine in Sinjar (Iraq)
   underscore the wealth and distinctiveness of so many underrepresented
   heritage sites and the threats they face, ranging from lack of
   recognition to targeted destruction associated with genocide.

   World Monuments Fund will continue to engage a wide variety of
   stakeholders and capture divergent perspectives as an essential
   component of our work. Through close collaboration with local
   communities, we commit to highlighting the wonder of humanity’s rich
   accomplishments while denouncing past and current injustice. Ensuring
   that recognized cultural heritage embodies our diversity and portrays
   the complexities of history enhances its relevance for communities
   everywhere.

Climate Change

   Our built heritage has always contended with the elements. Crucial
   components of local architecture, sense of place, and even cultural
   mores have developed over centuries in response to climate. In recent
   years, we have seen weather patterns change around the globe such that
   temperatures are shifting, sea levels are rising, and storms are
   intensifying. Communities and the places of importance that help
   nourish them must adapt to survive. Despite the concept of the monument
   as a beacon for the ages, extreme temperatures, violent winds, and
   excessive or inadequate rainfall represent new threats to their
   longevity. Year after year, increased flooding and wildfires damage and
   even destroy historic sites in countless nations around the world. The
   global nature of our changing climate underscores the need for
   pragmatic, replicable strategies to safeguard our cultural heritage.

   Blackpool Piers in Blackpool, United Kingdom.
   Blackpool Piers in Blackpool, United Kingdom.

   A principal approach lies in the development of adaptation strategies
   that provide historic and cultural resources with the ability to
   withstand climatic changes: shed and drain larger volumes of water;
   withstand stronger winds; tolerate more extreme temperatures; and
   endure drought. In many cases, traditional natural resource management
   and building techniques already provide the answers and simply require
   renewal and strengthening. World Monuments Fund’s past projects in
   Kilwa (Tanzania) and current project at a 2020 Watch site in
   Vijayapura, Karnataka (India), integrate rehabilitation of traditional
   land and water management systems as a strategy to protect and
   revitalize the historic sites. In other cases, such as Wat
   Chaiwatthanaram (Thailand), modern engineering solutions and drainage
   plans have been implemented to protect this Buddhist temple complex
   from flood events exacerbated by a changing climate.

   Cultural heritage is also emblematic of the urgency of climate
   change—iconic places are dramatically swallowed by the sea or destroyed
   by gale force winds. Places of importance can serve as rallying cries
   for global coordination and commitment to the climate crisis. With our
   projects at Blackpool Piers (United Kingdom) and the Coral Stone
   Mosques (Maldives), World Monuments Fund has aimed to highlight the
   plight of our heritage in the face of climate change and work closely
   with local stakeholders and international institutions to develop
   strategies to save them.

   We have the duty to protect the world’s cultural heritage from the
   immediate effects of climate change and the opportunity to emphasize
   the need for action through work at these places. World Monuments Fund
   is committed to playing a key role in both arenas, working closely with
   local and international partners to find solutions to immediate needs
   and to contribute to long-term mitigation. Our approach is to learn
   from our work and disseminate the lessons of successful strategies and
   failed tactics alike to improve our global capacity to safeguard our
   places of greatest significance and the communities that turn to them
   for affirmation, solace, and the promise of cultural resilience.

To read more stories from the 2021 Watch Magazine, click here.

   Author

Jonathan S. Bell, Ph.D.

   Vice President of Programs

   Dr. Bell came to World Monuments Fund from National Geographic Society,
   where he oversaw a large portfolio of projects that included
   archaeological research and cultural heritage. Over the course of his
   career, he worked with the Getty Conservation Institute on World
   Heritage Sites in China and Egypt, evaluated cultural site
   management from Kazakhstan to Colombia, and oversaw strategic planning
   for largescale flood infrastructure for the County of Los Angeles. Dr.
   Bell serves on multiple ICOMOS scientific committees as an expert
   member and sits on the Editorial Board of the Journal of Architectural
   Conservation. He holds a B.A. from Harvard University, a D.E.A from the
   Sorbonne, an M.Sc. in Historic Preservation from Columbia University
   and a Ph.D. in Urban Planning from UCLA.
     * Who We Are
          + Our Mission  Values
          + Staff  Board
          + Affiliates
          + Financials
          + Jobs
          + Privacy Policy
     * What We Do
          + World Monuments Watch
          + 2022 World Monuments Watch
          + Featured Projects
          + Explore Sites  Projects
          + News
          + Library
     * Get Involved
          + Contact Us
          + Attend an Event
          + Travel with WMF
          + Jewish Heritage Program
          + Ukraine Heritage Response Fund
          + Heritage from Home
     * Give
          + Support Our Work
          + Membership
          + More Ways to Give
          + International Council
          + Planned Giving
          + Institutional Giving
          + Crisis Response

   Press Room
   Latest news from World Monuments Fund

Stay informed by receiving our monthly newsletter

   Name Friend______________________________________________________
   Email * ____________________________________________________________
   Leave this field blank ____________________
   Subscribe

Stay connected

     * Facebook
     * Twitter
     * YouTube
     * Instagram
     * LinkedIn
     * Contact Us

   World Monuments Fund logo

   Rockefeller Center
   600 Fifth Avenue
   25th Floor
   New York, NY 10020
   Tel: +1 646 424-9594

   World Monuments Fund® and World Monuments Watch® are registered service
   marks. World Monuments Fund logo is a trademark of World Monuments
   Fund. Ellsworth Kelly Foundation generously supported the development
   of this site. Site proudly built by Amazee Labs. © 2022 World Monuments
   Fund.

   Registered 501(c)(3). EIN: 13-2571900</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-53">
<text>   #alternate Edit this page Wikipedia (en) Wikipedia Atom feed

   Jump to content

   [ ] Main menu
   Main menu
   (BUTTON) move to sidebar (BUTTON) hide
   Navigation
     * Main page
     * Contents
     * Current events
     * Random article
     * About Wikipedia
     * Contact us
     * Donate

   Contribute
     * Help
     * Learn to edit
     * Community portal
     * Recent changes
     * Upload file

   Languages
   Language links are at the top of the page.
   Wikipedia The Free Encyclopedia
   Search
   ____________________
   (BUTTON) Search

     * Create account
     * Log in

   [ ] Personal tools
     * Create account
     * Log in

   Pages for logged out editors learn more
     * Contributions
     * Talk

Contents

   (BUTTON) move to sidebar (BUTTON) hide
     * (Top)
     * 1World Heritage Sites

     2Tentative list

     3See also

     4References



   5External links

   [ ] Toggle the table of contents

List of World Heritage Sites in India

   [ ] 44 languages
     * العربية
     * অসমীয়া
     * Azərbaycanca
     * বাংলা
     * Беларуская
     * भोजपुरी
     * Cymraeg
     * Deutsch
     * डोटेली
     * Español
     * فارسی
     * Français
     * Galego
     * ગુજરાતી
     * 한국어
     * Հայերեն
     * हिन्दी
     * Hrvatski
     * Italiano
     * ಕನ್ನಡ
     * ქართული
     * Қазақша
     * Magyar
     * मैथिली
     * മലയാളം
     * Malti
     * मराठी
     * მარგალური
     * नेपाली
     * नेपाल भाषा
     * 日本語
     * Нохчийн
     * ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
     * Português
     * Русский
     * Shqip
     * Simple English
     * Slovenščina
     * தமிழ்
     * తెలుగు
     * ไทย
     * Українська
     * Tiếng Việt
     * 中文

   Edit links

     * Article
     * Talk

   [ ] English

     * Read
     * Edit
     * View history

   [ ] Tools
   Tools
   (BUTTON) move to sidebar (BUTTON) hide
   Actions
     * Read
     * Edit
     * View history

   General
     * What links here
     * Related changes
     * Upload file
     * Special pages
     * Permanent link
     * Page information
     * Cite this page
     * Get shortened URL
     * Wikidata item

   Print/export
     * Download as PDF
     * Printable version

   In other projects
     * Wikimedia Commons
     * Wikivoyage

   From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
   List of World Heritage Sites in India

   List of World Heritage Sites in India is located in India
   Fatehpur Sikri
   Fatehpur Sikri
   Agra
   Agra
   Kaziranga National Park
   Kaziranga National Park
   Manas Wildlife Sanctuary
   Manas Wildlife Sanctuary
   Sanchi
   Sanchi
   Bhimbetka
   Bhimbetka
   Khajuraho
   Khajuraho
   Bodh Gaya
   Bodh Gaya
   New Delhi
   New Delhi
   Champaner-Pavagadh
   Champaner-Pavagadh
   Goa
   Goa
   Keoladeo
   Keoladeo
   Ajanta Caves
   Ajanta Caves
   Ellora Caves
   Ellora Caves
   Mumbai
   Mumbai
   Chola Temples
   Chola Temples
   Mahabalipuram
   Mahabalipuram
   Hampi
   Hampi
   Nilgiri
   Nilgiri
   Darjeeling Railway
   Darjeeling Railway
   Kalka–Shimla
   Kalka–Shimla
   Great Himalayan National Park
   Great Himalayan National Park
   Pattadakal
   Pattadakal
   Konark Sun Temple
   Konark Sun Temple
   Rani ki vav
   Rani ki vav
   Ahmadabad
   Ahmadabad
   Nanda Devi
   Nanda Devi
   Sundarbans
   Sundarbans
   List of World Heritage Sites in India
   List of World Heritage Sites in India
   List of World Heritage Sites in India
   List of World Heritage Sites in India
   Khangchendzonga
   Khangchendzonga
   Nalanda
   Nalanda
   Jaipur
   Jaipur
   Ramappa
   Ramappa
   Dholavira
   Dholavira
   Chandigarh
   Chandigarh
   List of World Heritage Sites in India
   List of World Heritage Sites in India
   List of World Heritage Sites in India
   List of World Heritage Sites in India
   List of World Heritage Sites in India
   List of World Heritage Sites in India
   Santiniketan
   Santiniketan
   List of World Heritage Sites in India
   List of World Heritage Sites in India
   List of World Heritage Sites in India
   class=notpageimage|
   Location of World Heritage Sites in India. Green dots indicate some of
   the sites in the Western Ghats (39 sites in total). Blue dots are the
   Hill Forts of Rajasthan. Yellow dots are the Sacred Ensembles of the
   Hoysalas. Mumbai and New Delhi each have three sites, Agra and Jaipur
   have two.

   The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
   (UNESCO) designates World Heritage Sites of outstanding universal value
   to cultural or natural heritage which have been nominated by countries
   which are signatories to the UNESCO World Heritage Convention,
   established in 1972.^[1] Cultural heritage consists of monuments (such
   as architectural works, monumental sculptures, or inscriptions), groups
   of buildings, and sites (including archaeological sites). Natural
   features (consisting of physical and biological formations), geological
   and physiographical formations (including habitats of threatened
   species of animals and plants), and natural sites which are important
   from the point of view of science, conservation or natural beauty, are
   defined as natural heritage.^[2] India accepted the convention on 14
   November 1977, making its sites eligible for inclusion on the list.^[3]

   There are 42 World Heritage Sites in India. Out of these, 34 are
   cultural, seven are natural, and one, Khangchendzonga National Park, is
   of mixed type. India has the sixth-most sites worldwide. The first
   sites to be listed were the Ajanta Caves, Ellora Caves, Agra Fort, and
   Taj Mahal, all of which were inscribed in the 1983 session of the World
   Heritage Committee. The most recent sites listed were Santiniketan and
   the Sacred Ensembles of the Hoysalas, in 2023.^[3] At different times,
   two sites were listed as endangered: the Manas Wildlife Sanctuary was
   listed between 1992 and 2011 due to poaching and the activities of Bodo
   militias,^[4] and the monuments at Hampi were listed between 1999 and
   2006 due to risks from increased traffic and new constructions in
   surroundings.^[5] One site is transnational: The Architectural Work of
   Le Corbusier is shared with six other countries.^[6] In addition, India
   has 50 sites on its tentative list.^[3]

World Heritage Sites[edit]

   UNESCO lists sites under ten criteria; each entry must meet at least
   one of the criteria. Criteria i through vi are cultural, and vii
   through x are natural.^[7]
   * Transnational site

   CAPTION: World Heritage Sites

   Site Image Location (state) Year listed UNESCO data Description
   Ajanta Caves Cave with carved columns and a shrine in the middle
   Maharashtra 1983 242; i, ii, iii, vi (cultural) The caves at Ajanta
   represent a collection of Buddhist art from two periods. The first
   monuments date to the 2nd and 1st centuries BCE and were created by the
   followers of Theravada Buddhism. Further monuments were added in the
   5th and 6th centuries CE, during the Vakataka dynasty, by the followers
   of Mahayana Buddhism. The monuments are masterpieces of Buddhist art
   and exerted strong artistic influence in India and the broader region,
   especially in Java.^[8]
   Ellora Caves Tourists visiting a temple cut in rock Maharashtra 1983
   243; i, iii, vi (cultural) The Ellora Caves comprise 34 temples and
   monasteries that were cut into a 2 km (1.2 mi) long basalt cliff
   between the 7th and 11th centuries. As they were built by followers of
   Buddhism, Hinduism, and Jainism, they illustrate the religious
   tolerance of the period when they were constructed. The largest temple
   is the Kailasa Temple (pictured), which is elaborately decorated with
   sculptures and paintings.^[9]
   Agra Fort Building in red stone with decorations Uttar Pradesh 1983
   251; iii (cultural) Agra Fort is a 16th-century Mughal imperial
   fortress in Agra. It got its present layout under the Emperor Akbar.
   The complex contains several palaces (Jahangiri Mahal pictured),
   audience halls, and two mosques. Stylistically, it is one of the high
   points of Indo-Islamic architecture, with influences of Persian and
   Timurid architecture.^[10]^[11]
   Taj Mahal Taj Mahal, a domed building in white marble with four
   surrounding minarets Uttar Pradesh 1983 252; i (cultural) The Taj Mahal
   is considered the finest example of Indo-Islamic architecture. It was
   built in Agra on the bank of the Yamuna river as a mausoleum of Mumtaz
   Mahal, the Persian wife of the Mughal emperor Shah Jahan, between 1631
   and 1648. It was designed by Ustad Ahmad Lahori and built in white
   marble inlaid with precious and semi-precious stones. The tomb is
   surrounded by four free-standing minarets. The complex also includes
   the main gate, a mosque, a guesthouse, and surrounding gardens.^[12]
   Sun Temple, Konârak A large Hindu temple in stone Odisha 1984 246; i,
   iii, vi (cultural) This Hindu temple was built in the 13th century and
   is one of the finest examples of Kalinga architecture. It represents
   the chariot of the solar deity Surya: on the outer sides, it has 24
   wheels carved of stone and richly decorated, being pulled by six
   horses. Other decorative motifs include lions, musicians, dancers, and
   erotic scenes.^[13]
   Group of Monuments at Mahabalipuram A Hindu temple in stone Tamil Nadu
   1984 249; i, ii, iii, vi (cultural) The monuments around the town of
   Mamallapuram were built in the 7th and 8th centuries, under the Pallava
   dynasty. There are different types of monuments: the rathas, which are
   chariot-shaped temples (Dharmaraja Ratha); the mandapas (rock-cut
   temples); rock reliefs, including the giant Descent of the Ganges;
   Shore Temple (pictured) and other temples and archaeological remains.
   The artistic expression of the monuments was influential in the broader
   region, including Cambodia, Vietnam, and Java.^[14]
   Kaziranga National Park A rhino at a water edge Assam 1985 337; ix, x
   (natural) Kaziranga is located in the floodplains of the Brahmaputra
   River. It is one of the best wildlife sanctuaries in the world, home to
   the world's largest population of the Indian rhinoceros (pictured), as
   well as tigers, Asian elephants, wild water buffalo, and the Ganges
   river dolphin. The wetlands are important for migratory bird
   species.^[15]
   Manas Wildlife Sanctuary A herd of Wild elephants in the park Assam
   1985 338; vii, ix, x (natural) The sanctuary along the Manas River
   covers grasslands on floodplains and forests, both in lowlands and in
   hills. The area is a biodiversity hotspot and home to several
   endangered species, including the Indian rhinoceros, Asian elephant
   (pictured), wild water buffalo, tiger, sloth bear, pygmy hog, Gee's
   golden langur, and Bengal florican. The forests are constantly being
   renewed after floods and changes in the river courses. Between 1992 and
   2011, the site was listed as endangered due to poaching and the
   activities of Bodo militias.^[16]^[4]
   Keoladeo National Park A group of Bar Headed Geese and Demoiselle
   cranes flying together in the Sanctuary Rajasthan 1985 340; x (natural)
   Initially a duck-hunting reserve for Maharajas, Keoladeo is a man-made
   and man-maintained wetland. It is important both for migratory and
   resident birds, especially waterbirds. Over 350 species of birds have
   been recorded, including 15 species of herons, the Siberian crane, and
   the greater spotted eagle. Pictured here is a group of bar-headed geese
   and demoiselle cranes flying together in the park. The park is also
   protected under the Ramsar Convention.^[17]
   Churches and Convents of Goa A church in red brick and an adjacent
   building in white Goa 1986 234; ii, iv, vi (cultural) Old Goa was the
   capital of Portuguese India, a colony that lasted for 450 years until
   1961. The site comprises seven churches and convents that were built in
   the 16th and 17th centuries in the Gothic, Manueline, Mannerist, and
   Baroque styles, but which were also adapted to suit local techniques
   and resources. They spread architectural influences to Asian countries
   where Catholic missions were established. The Basilica of Bom Jesus,
   where Saint Francis Xavier is buried, is pictured.^[18]
   Khajuraho Group of Monuments Stone carvings representing people in
   different situations Madhya Pradesh 1986 240; i, iii (cultural) This
   site comprises 23 temples, both Hindu and Jain, that were built in the
   10th and 11th centuries, during the Chandela dynasty. The temples are
   built in the Nagara style. They are richly decorated with stone
   carvings and sculptures that depict sacred and secular motifs,
   including depictions of domestic life, musicians, dancers, and amorous
   couples. A detail from the Lakshmana Temple is pictured.^[19]
   Group of Monuments at Hampi A stone chariot in Dravidian style in Hampi
   Karnataka 1986 241bis; i, iii, iv (cultural) Hampi was the capital of
   the Vijayanagara Empire until its abandonment after its sacking and
   pillaging by the Deccan sultanates in 1565. For about 200 years, it was
   a prosperous multi-cultural city that left several monuments in the
   Dravidian style as well as the Indo-Islamic style. The remains include
   religious and secular buildings and defensive structures. The
   Virupaksha Temple is pictured. A minor boundary modification of the
   site took place in 2012. Between 1999 and 2006, the site was listed as
   endangered due to risks posed by increased traffic and new
   constructions.^[20]^[5]
   Fatehpur Sikri A large gate in red stone in Mughal style Uttar Pradesh
   1986 255; ii, iii, iv (cultural) For about a decade in the second half
   of the 16th century, Fatehpur Sikri was the capital of the Mughal
   Empire under Emperor Akbar, until the capital was moved to Lahore in
   1585 and the city was mostly abandoned. The site comprises a large
   collection of monuments and temples in the Mughal style, such as the
   Jama Masjid (the gate to the mosque, the Buland Darwaza, pictured), the
   Panch Mahal palace, and the Tomb of Salim Chishti.^[21]
   Group of Monuments at Pattadakal A Hindu temple in light-coloured stone
   Karnataka 1987 239rev; iii, iv (cultural) This site comprises nine
   Hindu temples and one Jain temple that were built in the 7th and 8th
   centuries under the Chalukya dynasty. They were constructed in the
   Badami Chalukya style that blends influences from northern and southern
   India. The Temple of Virupaksha is pictured.^[22]
   Elephanta Caves Stone carvings representing Shiva and religious scenes
   Maharashtra 1987 244rev; i, iii (cultural) The cave complex, located on
   Elephanta Island in Mumbai Harbour, was constructed mainly in the 5th
   and 6th centuries, with remains of human occupation dating back to the
   2nd century BCE. The temples are dedicated to Shiva. The caves are
   decorated with stone carvings, some of them colossal. A statue of
   Trimurti Shiva, flanked by the dvarapalas, is pictured.^[23]
   Great Living Chola Temples A highly decorated stone Hindu temple Tamil
   Nadu 1987 250bis; ii, iii (cultural) This site comprises three Hindu
   temples built in the 11th and 12th centuries under the Chola dynasty.
   They represent some of the best examples of Dravidian architecture of
   the Chola period. They are made of stone and decorated with stone and
   bronze sculptures. Initially, only the Brihadisvara Temple (pictured)
   was listed as a World Heritage Site; two other temples, the
   Brihadisvara Temple and the Airavatesvara Temple were added in 2004,
   after which the site was renamed to its current name.^[24]^[25]
   Sundarbans National Park A tiger at the water margin West Bengal 1987
   452; ix, x (natural) The national park covers the Indian part of the
   Sundarbans, the delta of the Ganges and Brahmaputra rivers. It is the
   world's largest and richest mangrove forest, with about 78 recorded
   mangrove species. It is a biodiversity hotspot, home to a large
   population of Bengal tigers (one pictured), as well as an important
   habitat for the Irrawaddy dolphin and Ganges river dolphin, several
   species of birds and sea turtles. In Bangladesh, the Sundarbans is
   listed as a separate World Heritage Site.^[26]^[27]
   Nanda Devi and Valley of Flowers National Parks Flowers in a mountain
   valley Uttarakhand 1988 335bis; viii, x (natural) This site comprises
   two areas in the West Himalayas, the Valley of Flowers National Park
   (pictured) and the Nanda Devi National Park. There are different types
   of high-altitude habitats, from high mountain peaks (Nanda Devi at
   7,817 m (25,646 ft) is India's second-highest mountain) to alpine
   meadows. In addition to numerous mountain plant species, the area is
   home to the Asiatic black bear, snow leopard, brown bear, and bharal.
   Nanda Devi NP was originally listed alone in 1988; the Valley of
   Flowers NP was added in 2005.^[28]^[29]
   Buddhist Monuments at Sanchi A large stupa in stone with an elaborate
   gate in front Madhya Pradesh 1989 524; i, ii, iii, iv, vi (cultural)
   Sanchi is one of the oldest extant Buddhist sanctuaries and was
   instrumental in the spread of the religion through the Indian
   subcontinent. It became important under Emperor Ashoka of the Maurya
   Empire in the 3rd century BCE. The remains of a pillar from the period
   are preserved. Stupas (Stupa 1 pictured), palaces, temples, and
   monasteries are preserved in different states of conservation, mostly
   dating to the 2nd and 1st centuries BCE. The city declined in
   importance in the 12th century.^[30]
   Humayun's Tomb, Delhi Look at a mausoleum in white and red stone
   through a gate Delhi 1993 232bis; ii, iv (cultural) The tomb of the
   Mughal emperor Humayun was constructed in the 1560s and represents the
   first example of a garden tomb on the Indian subcontinent, introducing
   the elements of Persian gardens. The monumental double-domed mausoleum
   represents a leap in Mughal architecture and is an architectural
   predecessor of the Taj Mahal. The complex includes several smaller
   tombs from the period. A minor boundary modification took place in
   2016.^[31]
   Qutb Minar and its Monuments, Delhi A tall minaret and a mausoleum,
   both in red and white stone Delhi 1993 233; iv (cultural) The complex
   comprises several early Islamic India monuments from the 13th and 14th
   centuries when the Delhi Sultanate established power there. They
   include the Qutb Minar, a 72.5 m (238 ft)-high minaret (pictured), the
   Alai Darwaza gateway, the Quwwat-ul-Islam Mosque where several stone
   pillars from previous Hindu temples were repurposed, the Iron pillar,
   and several tombs and other monuments.^[32]
   Mountain Railways of India A train crossing a bridge with several
   arches West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Himachal Pradesh 1999 944ter; ii, iv
   (cultural) This site comprises three mountain railways built in the
   late 19th and early 20th centuries to provide access to towns in the
   highlands. They represent a technology transfer in a colonial setting;
   the construction involved building bridges and tunnels to cross
   difficult terrains. The railways supported further human settlement of
   the areas they linked to and are still fully operational. The
   Darjeeling Himalayan Railway was initially listed alone in 1999. The
   Nilgiri Mountain Railway was added in 2005, and the Kalka–Shimla
   railway (pictured) in 2008.^[33]
   Mahabodhi Temple Complex at Bodh Gaya A large stone Buddhist temple
   Bihar 2002 1056rev; i, ii, iii, iv, vi (cultural) The Buddhist temple
   complex marks the site where Buddha is said to have attained
   enlightenment under the Bodhi Tree. The present temple dates to the 5th
   and 6th centuries CE (during the Gupta period) and was built upon a
   previous structure commissioned by Emperor Ashoka in the 3rd century
   BCE. The temple is 50 m (160 ft) high and made of brick. It had a
   substantial influence on the development of architecture in the
   following centuries. After centuries of abandonment and neglect, the
   temple was extensively restored in the 19th century.^[34]
   Rock Shelters of Bhimbetka Rock paintings depicting people and animals
   Madhya Pradesh 2003 925; iii, v (cultural) This site comprises five
   clusters of rock shelters in the foothills of the Vindhya Range. They
   contain rock paintings from the hunter-gatherer societies of the
   Mesolithic to the historical period. The nearby villages still maintain
   some cultural practices similar to those depicted in the
   paintings.^[35]
   Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus (formerly Victoria Terminus) A large
   heavily decorated railway station building Maharashtra 2004 945rev; ii,
   iv (cultural) The historic terminal train station in Mumbai was built
   in the late 19th century. It was designed by Frederick William Stevens
   in the Victorian Gothic style, drawing influences from Italian Gothic
   architecture and combining them with influences from Indian traditional
   buildings. It symbolized the wealth of Mumbai as a major commercial
   port within the British Commonwealth.^[36]
   Champaner-Pavagadh Archaeological Park A mosque in brown stone Gujarat
   2004 1101; ii, iv, v, vi (cultural) The site contains remains from
   several periods, from the Chalcolithic to the remains of Champaner, a
   short-lived capital of the Gujarat Sultanate in the 16th century.
   Important buildings include the Hindu temple Kalika Mata, Jain temples,
   and Jama Mosque (pictured) which features both Hindu and Muslim
   architectural elements, and the remains of water-managing systems,
   fortifications, and 14th-century temples.^[37]
   Red Fort Complex Fortress walls and a gate in red stone Delhi 2007
   231rev; ii, iii, vi (cultural) The Red Fort was built under Mughal
   emperor Shah Jahan in the mid-17th century. It represents the zenith of
   Mughal architecture, blending the elements of Indo-Persian culture with
   Timurid elements. Its architecture had a strong influence on later
   palaces and gardens in the region. The Red Fort was also the setting of
   historical events; it was sacked and partially repurposed by the
   British, and it was the site where the independence of India was first
   celebrated. The Delhi Gate is pictured.^[38]
   The Jantar Mantar, Jaipur A collection of buildings for astronomical
   purposes Rajasthan 2010 1338; iii, vi (cultural) The Jantar Mantar in
   Jaipur is India's most significant historic astronomical observatory.
   It dates from the early 18th century and was built by Rajput king Sawai
   Jai Singh. There are about 20 astronomical instruments that were
   designed and built for naked eye observations of the positions of stars
   and planets. It also served as a meeting point for different scientific
   cultures.^[39]
   Western Ghats A scenic view of Pampadumshola Mountains Maharashtra,
   Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu 2012 1342rev; ix, x (natural) The Western
   Ghats is a mountain range that runs along the western coast of the
   Indian subcontinent. It is covered with montane forests. The area is a
   biodiversity hotspot and home to endangered species such as the Bengal
   tiger, lion-tailed macaque, Nilgiri tahr, and Nilgiri langur. In terms
   of evolutionary history, the area is important given the breakup of
   Gondwana in the early Jurassic period, after which India was an
   isolated landmass until its collision with the Eurasian Plate. The
   World Heritage Site comprises 39 individual properties.^[40]
   Hill Forts of Rajasthan A fortress in light-coloured stone above a
   river Rajasthan 2013 247rev; ii, iii (cultural) This site comprises six
   forts: the Chittor Fort, Kumbhalgarh Fort, Ranthambore Fort, Gagron
   Fort, Amber Fort (pictured), and Jaisalmer Fort, which were constructed
   between the 8th and 18th centuries by Rajput kingdoms. They are
   eclectic in style, with elements of Sultanate and Mughal architecture,
   and were influential on the later styles of the Maratha Empire. They
   are situated in different settings; for example, Ranthambore is in a
   forest, and Jaisalmer is in a desert.^[41]
   Rani-ki-Vav (the Queen's Stepwell) at Patan, Gujarat A view of the
   stepwell with several decorated pillars Gujarat 2014 922; i, iv
   (cultural) Rani-ki-Vav is one of the finest examples of a stepwell, an
   elaborate type of well where groundwater is accessed through several
   levels of stairs. It was constructed in the 11th century, during the
   Chaulukya dynasty, on the banks of the Saraswati River in the city of
   Patan. It has seven levels, each decorated with stone carvings and
   sculptures depicting religious and secular themes and literary works.
   After the change in the river course in the 13th century, it was no
   longer in use and got covered with silt, which allowed for its
   preservation.^[42]
   Great Himalayan National Park Conservation Area Snow-covered mountains
   and trees Himachal Pradesh 2014 1406rev; x (natural) The national park
   covers habitats from alpine peaks of the Himalayas above 6,000 m
   (20,000 ft) to alpine meadows and riverine forests below 2,000 m
   (6,600 ft). In total, there are 25 types of forests recorded, and they
   have rich floral and faunal assemblies, including numerous species of
   birds, mammals, reptiles, and insects. It is home to endangered species
   such as the western tragopan and musk deer.^[43]
   Archaeological Site of Nalanda Mahavihara at Nalanda, Bihar Ruins of
   brick buildings Bihar 2016 1502; iv, vi (cultural) Nalanda Mahavihara
   was a Buddhist ancient higher-learning institution established in the
   5th century and lasting until its sacking in the 13th century. However,
   some archaeological remains also date back to the 3rd century BCE. The
   remains include shrines and stupas, viharas (residential and
   educational buildings), and artworks in different materials. Both the
   architectural solutions and educational approaches were influential in
   other similar institutions in the broader region.^[44]
   Khangchendzonga National Park Snow-covered mountains and a lake in
   front Sikkim 2016 1513; iii, vi, vii, x (mixed) The national park is
   located around Mount Khangchendzonga, the world's third highest
   mountain (8,586 m (28,169 ft)). It is a sacred mountain in Tibetan
   Buddhism, where the area is considered a beyul, a sacred hidden land.
   It is home to ethnically very diverse Sikkimese communities. From the
   natural perspective, the area comprises various habitats, from high
   mountains with glaciers to old-growth forests, and is rich in animal
   and plant species.^[45]
   The Architectural Work of Le Corbusier, an Outstanding Contribution to
   the Modern Movement* A modernist concrete building, a pond in front
   Chandigarh 2016 1321rev; i, ii, vi (cultural) This transnational site
   (shared with Argentina, Belgium, France, Germany, Switzerland, and
   Japan) encompasses 17 works of Franco-Swiss architect Le Corbusier. Le
   Corbusier was an important representative of the 20th-century Modernist
   movement, which introduced new architectural techniques to meet the
   needs of the changing society. The Chandigarh Capitol Complex is listed
   in India. It is the central part of the city of Chandigarh and is
   designed in line with the principles of a radiant city. The Palace of
   Assembly is pictured.^[6]
   Historic City of Ahmadabad An intricately carved Jali Design on Sidi
   Saiyyed Mosque Gujarat 2017 1551; ii, v (cultural) The city of
   Ahmedabad was founded by Ahmad Shah I in 1411 to serve as the capital
   of the Gujarat Sultanate. It was the meeting place of many religions
   (Hinduism, Islam, Buddhism, Jainism, Christianity, Zoroastrianism, and
   Judaism), which resulted in a unique urban fabric. The architecture is
   based on timber, and the typical neighbourhoods are called pols,
   densely packed traditional houses with gated streets. Important
   buildings from the Sultanate period include the Bhadra Fort city walls,
   Sidi Saiyyed Mosque (pictured) and numerous mosques, tombs, and
   shrines.^[46]
   Victorian Gothic and Art Deco Ensembles of Mumbai A brick building in
   neo-gothic style Maharashtra 2018 1480; ii, iv (cultural) This site
   comprises two assemblies of buildings in Mumbai from the British Empire
   era. Public buildings in the Victorian Gothic style from the second
   half of the 19th century adapted Gothic Revival elements for the Indian
   climate, introducing features such as balconies and verandas. The
   Bombay High Court building is pictured. The Art Deco buildings date to
   the early 20th century and include cinema halls and apartment
   buildings. See also Art Deco in Mumbai.^[47]
   Jaipur City, Rajasthan A large palace in red and pink sandstone with
   many windows Rajasthan 2019 1605; ii, iv, vi (cultural) Jaipur was
   founded by the Rajput ruler Jai Singh II in 1727. The city was built
   with a grid plan, inspired by ancient Hindu and Western ideals, in a
   departure from the medieval architecture of the region. It was a strong
   trade centre and home to craftsmen and artists. Important buildings and
   sites include the Hawa Mahal palace (pictured), Govind Dev Ji Temple,
   City Palace, and Jantar Mantar, which is listed as a separate World
   Heritage Site.^[48]
   Kakatiya Rudreshwara (Ramappa) Temple, Telangana A Hindu temple in red
   stone Telangana 2021 1570; i, iii (cultural) The Hindu temple,
   dedicated to Shiva, was constructed in the first half of the 13th
   century under the Kakatiya dynasty. It is decorated with stone carvings
   and sculptures in granite and dolerite that depict regional dance
   customs. In line with Hindu practices, the temple is constructed in a
   way that blends harmonically with the environment.^[49]
   Dholavira: a Harappan City Archaeological site with some brick and
   stone walls Gujarat 2021 1645; iii, iv (cultural) Dholavira was one of
   the centres of the Harappan Civilisation from the 3rd to mid-2nd
   millennium BCE, in the Bronze Age. The remains include a walled city
   and a cemetery, and there are remains of buildings and water management
   systems. The city's location was chosen because of nearby sources of
   precious minerals. The city had trade connections with other cities in
   the region and as far as Mesopotamia. The site was rediscovered in
   1968.^[50]
   Santiniketan A building with elaborate facade behind a metal fence West
   Bengal 2023 1375; iv, vi (cultural) Santiniketan was founded as an
   ashram by Debendranath Tagore in the second half of the 19th century
   and then developed into a university town for Visva-Bharati University.
   It is connected to the life and philosophy of Debendranath's son
   Rabindranath Tagore, the leading figure of the Bengali Renaissance. The
   prayer hall is pictured.^[51]^[52]
   Sacred Ensembles of the Hoysalas Hindu temple in Dravidian style
   Karnataka 2023 1670; i, ii, iv (cultural) This site comprises two
   clusters of monuments (in Belur and Halebidu), and the Keshava temple
   in Somanathapura, dating to the time of the Hoysala Empire, between the
   11th and 14th centuries. Hoysala architecture combined the elements of
   Dravidian architecture with influences from northern India. The temples
   were built by the followers of Vaishnavism, Shaivism, and Jainism, and
   they are richly decorated with stone sculptures and carvings. The
   Chennakeshava Temple in Belur is still an important pilgrimage
   site.^[53]^[54]

Tentative list[edit]

   In addition to sites inscribed on the World Heritage List, member
   states can maintain a list of tentative sites that they may consider
   for nomination. Nominations for the World Heritage List are only
   accepted if the site was previously listed on the tentative list.^[55]
   India lists 50 properties on its tentative list.^[3]

   CAPTION:

   Tentative sites
   Site Image Location (state) Year listed UNESCO criteria Description
   Temples at Bishnupur, West Bengal A brick temple with a domed roof West
   Bengal 1998 (cultural) The terracotta temples built by Malla rulers
   date to the 17th century. They were built in brick and laterite stone.
   They have characteristic sloping roofs. The Jor Bangle temple, from
   1655, is pictured.^[56]
   Mattancherry Palace, Ernakulam, Kerala A building with cars parked in
   front Kerala 1998 (cultural) The palace was built by the Portuguese for
   the local rulers around 1555. It is a two-storey building with several
   halls and a ceiling decorated with carvings in the coronation
   hall.^[57]
   Group of Monuments at Mandu, Madhya Pradesh A building in Indo-Islamic
   style above a pond Madhya Pradesh 1998 (cultural) This nomination
   comprises monuments dating from the 11th to the 16th centuries. They
   include rock-cut tombs and temples, mosques, palaces, and pavilions.
   The Jahaz Mahal palace is pictured.^[58]
   Ancient Buddhist Site, Sarnath, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh A brick
   Buddhist stupa Uttar Pradesh 1998 (cultural) This nomination comprises
   two groups of monuments. The first group includes Buddhist temples,
   stupas (Dhamek Stupa pictured), and monasteries, as well as the remains
   of a pillar of Ashoka. They date from the 3rd century BCE to the 12th
   century CE. The second group is represented by the Chaukhandi Stupa,
   built in 1588.^[59]
   Sri Harimandir Sahib, Amritsar, Punjab A temple in golden colour with a
   pool in front Punjab 2004 iii, iv, vi (cultural) Sri Harimandir Sahib,
   also known as the Golden Temple, is the spiritual centre of Sikhism.
   The temple complex was rebuilt several times. The architectural layout
   of the complex reflects the spiritual concepts of the religion. The
   main temple building is richly decorated with floral patterns, either
   painted or as marble inlay.^[60]
   River Island of Majuli in midstream of Brahmaputra River in Assam Two
   men on a boat on a river Assam 2004 ii, iii, v, vi (cultural) Majuli is
   a large river island in the Brahmaputra River. There are over 200
   villages on the island, inhabited by people from various ethnic
   origins. A characteristic concept of the region is the satras,
   institutional centres for cultural activities that also serve as
   democratic mediators for dispute resolution.^[61]
   Namdapha National Park Forest and snow-covered mountains in the
   background Arunachal Pradesh 2006 vii, ix, x (natural) The national
   park covers an extensive wilderness area mostly covered in forests and
   sparsely explored. It is located in the Eastern Himalayas. The highest
   peak is Dapha Bum, at 4,571 m (14,997 ft).^[62]
   Wild Ass Sanctuary, Little Rann of Kutch Two wild asses Gujarat 2006 x
   (natural) Little Rann of Kutch is a salt marsh with sparse vegetation,
   mostly with xerophytic species. It is home to the last wild population
   of the Indian wild ass (two specimens pictured). It is also an
   important nesting area for birds.^[63]
   Neora Valley National Park Forest scenery West Bengal 2009 vii, x
   (natural) The area is covered by virgin forest and is a biodiversity
   hotspot. The valley spans from lowlands to altitudes around 3,200 m
   (10,500 ft), which results in a variety of habitats. It is home to
   several bird species and mammals, including the red panda and two
   species of pangolin.^[64]
   Desert National Park Sand dunes and some shrubs Rajasthan 2009 vii,
   viii, x (natural) The national park covers a part of the Thar Desert.
   It is home to several endemic species, such as the Indian hairy-footed
   gerbil and the Rajasthan toad-headed lizard. It is also home to two
   endangered species of vultures. There are fossil beds in the park,
   dating to the Jurassic period.^[65]
   Silk Road Sites in India Archaeological remains of a stupa Bihar, Jammu
   and Kashmir, Maharashtra, Puducherry, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh
   2010 ii, iii, vi (cultural) This nomination comprises 12 sites
   connected to the ancient Silk Road, a network of trade routes
   connecting China with the west. There were at least three corridors in
   India. In addition to the movement of goods, they were important in the
   spread of Buddhism and Greco-Buddhist culture. Sites in the nomination
   include the Roman trade port at Arikamedu, Vikramashila (pictured) and
   the early Buddhist site of Vaishali (the Relic Stupa).^[66]
   The Qutb Shahi Monuments of Hyderabad Golconda Fort, Qutb Shahi Tombs,
   Charminar Two Islamic tombs at sunset Telangana 2010 i, ii, iii, iv
   (cultural) This nomination comprises the monuments of the Qutb Shahi
   dynasty, a sultanate that ruled in the 16th and 17th century, in
   Hyderabad and its surroundings. The Golconda Fort is a citadel and
   early capital. Qutb Shahi tombs (two pictured) are mosques and burial
   places of the sultans, and Charminar, built in 1591, is a monumental
   gateway with four minarets. These sites illustrate the cosmopolitan
   nature of the region in that period.^[67]
   Mughal Gardens in Kashmir A pavilion in the middle of a pond Jammu and
   Kashmir 2010 i, ii, iv (cultural) Mughal gardens were built in a style
   influenced by Persian gardens, particularly by the Charbagh layout,
   with terraces and fountains arranged around a central water channel,
   reflecting the Islamic concept of paradise. Six gardens are listed in
   the nomination: Chashme Shahi, Shalimar Bagh (pavilion pictured), Pari
   Mahal, Verinag, Achabal Gardens, and Nishat Bagh.^[68]
   Delhi - A Heritage City Two Islamic tombs with white domes and several
   people around Delhi 2012 ii, v, vi (cultural) Delhi, as Lal Kot, was
   founded in 1060 as a capital of the Tomara dynasty. Later, rulers built
   subsequent cities on the site. Delhi was the capital of the Delhi
   Sultanate and an intermittent capital of the Mughal Empire. During the
   British rule, the capital was moved from Calcutta to the newly
   constructed New Delhi in 1911. The nomination lists the following areas
   of historical and architectural importance: Mehrauli, Nizamuddin Dargah
   (the tomb of the Sufi saint Nizamuddin Auliya), Shahjahanabad
   (pictured), and New Delhi.^[69]
   Monuments and Forts of the Deccan Sultanate Fortress gate in red brick
   Karnataka, Telangana 2014 ii, iii (cultural) This nomination comprises
   the monuments of Deccan sultanates, dating between the 14th and 17th
   centuries, in four cities: Gulbarga, Bidar, Bijapur in Karnataka state,
   and Hyderabad in Telangana state. The architecture of the Deccan
   sultanates represents interactions between Islamic and Hindu
   influences. Some of the monuments in the nomination include the Bidar
   Fort (pictured), Jama Mosque in Gulbarga, and the Qutb Shahi
   tombs.^[70]
   Cellular Jail, Andaman Islands One of the jail wings with three rows of
   cells Andaman and Nicobar Islands 2014 iv, vi (cultural) The jail was
   constructed in 1906 by the British, primarily to exile political
   prisoners to the remote archipelago. The architecture was based on the
   panopticon system, with radiating wings that were easy to monitor by a
   single guard. Jail cells were intended for individuals for confinement.
   The jail was infamous for the brutal treatment of inmates and is
   important in the history of the Indian independence movement.^[71]
   Iconic Saree Weaving Clusters of India Picture of different types of
   saris Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Assam
   2014 iii, v (cultural) Sari, or saree, is a traditional attire of
   Indian women. Sari weaving required particular adjustments of the
   weavers' houses to accommodate looms and other devices for silk
   processing, resulting in a specific vernacular architecture. This
   nomination comprises eight clusters where sari weaving was and still is
   a major profession of the villagers. Different styles of saris are
   pictured.^[72]
   Apatani Cultural Landscape A hill covered with forest, a village and
   rice paddies Arunachal Pradesh 2014 iii, v (cultural) Apatani people
   live in the Ziro Valley that is surrounded by high mountains of the
   Himalayas. They have a culture that is distinct from that of other
   tribes in the region, with traditional crafts and festivals. They
   practice wet rice cultivation and are careful in land management, which
   allowed sustainable agriculture for several centuries. The resulting
   cultural landscape reflects the ability of the tribe to make the
   adverse environment habitable.^[73]
   Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple, Srirangam Two gopuram of a temple,
   decorated with figures Tamil Nadu 2014 i, ii, iii, v (cultural) The Sri
   Ranganathaswamy Temple is dedicated to Ranganatha. It is the world's
   largest operating Hindu temple and is, in fact, a temple town, with
   inner enclosures constituting the temple and outer ones being used for
   settlements. There have been temples at the site for over two
   millennia; however, the key buildings standing today date to the time
   of the Vijayanagara Empire, from the 14th to the 16th century. The
   temple has 21 gopurams, which are richly decorated with paintings and
   sculptures.^[74]
   Monuments of Srirangapatna Island Town A white Islamic mausoleum in a
   garden Karnataka 2014 i, ii, iii, iv (cultural) Srirangapatna, the
   river island in the Kaveri river, is an important pilgrimage site in
   South India. It has been continuously inhabited since the 12th century.
   The monuments on the island date to different historical periods,
   including the periods of the Hoysala Empire, Vijayanagara Empire,
   Kingdom of Mysore, and the British Raj. Most monuments date from the
   16th to the 19th centuries and have elements of Hindu, Indo-Islamic,
   and British styles. The Gumbaz mausoleum is pictured.^[75]
   Chilika Lake A group of Flamingos flying over Chilika Lake Odisha 2014
   ix, x (natural) Chilika Lake is a large brackish water lagoon, fed by
   over 50 rivers and streams. It is an ephemeral environment, with the
   river sediments being deposited to the Bay of Bengal. Different parts
   of the lake are freshwater, brackish, and marine ecosystems and are an
   important habitat for birds and mammals, including the endangered
   Irrawaddy dolphin. The lake is rich in fish species that support the
   local fishermen population.^[76]
   Padmanabhapuram Palace A large building with white walls, red roof, and
   wooden beams Tamil Nadu 2014 iii, iv (cultural) The palace in
   Padmanabhapuram was constructed in the 16th century, with later
   additions continuing into the early 19th century, to serve as the seat
   of the Travancore royal family. It is a masterpiece of traditional
   timber architecture decorated with murals and carvings. Murals depict
   Hindu mythology and secular themes.^[77]
   Sites of Satyagrah, India's non-violent freedom movement People in
   front of an ashram building several sites 2014 iv, vi (cultural)
   Satyagraha, a form of nonviolent resistance or civil resistance, was
   developed by Mahatma Gandhi in the first half of the 20th century, as a
   part of the Indian independence movement. The nomination comprises 22
   sites across India related to the movement. Several sites are ashrams
   (Sabarmati Ashram pictured), founded by Gandhi to teach his philosophy.
   Other sites are related to the independence movement. Satyagraha theory
   was influential in the civil rights movement in the United States and
   in the fight against apartheid in South Africa.^[78]
   Thembang Fortified Village Stone gate to the village Arunachal Pradesh
   2014 ii, iii, v (cultural) The village of Thembang is located in the
   Eastern Himalayas at an altitude above 2,000 m (6,600 ft). It is built
   as a dzong, a type of fortified monastery also found in neighbouring
   Bhutan and Tibet. It is inhabited by the Monpas and was constructed
   before the 12th century.^[79]
   Narcondam Island A bird, hornbill, sitting on a tree branch Andaman and
   Nicobar Islands 2014 viii, ix, x (natural) Narcondam Island is a
   volcanic island off the main chain of the Andaman Islands. It is
   composed mostly of andesite, dacite, and amphibole, types of volcanic
   rocks and minerals. The island provides an important example of
   evolutionary processes due to its isolation. It is the only place where
   the endangered Narcondam hornbill (pictured) is found, and it is also
   home to several endemic species of the Andaman Islands.^[80]
   Moidams – the Mound-Burial system of the Ahom Dynasty Several tumuli in
   a forest, tourists walking around Assam 2014 v (cultural) This
   nomination comprises the tumuli in the town of Charaideo and its
   surroundings. The town was the capital of the Ahom kingdom (1228–1826),
   and the tumuli were the burial sites of the royals and nobility. The
   tumuli create an undulating landscape reminiscent of hills, in line
   with the spiritual beliefs of the Tai-Ahom people.^[81]
   Ekamra Kshetra – The Temple City, Bhubaneswar A Hindu temple in stone
   Odisha 2014 i, ii, iii (cultural) Ekamra Kshetra is the name of the old
   part of the city of Bhubaneswar. It is a holy city and has earned the
   nickname "Temple City" due to about 700 temples that once stood here.
   The temples were built between the 3rd century BCE and 15th century CE.
   They are built in the Kalinga style, and belong to Hindu, Buddhist, and
   Jain religions. The Lingaraja Temple is pictured. In addition to the
   temples, there are also Udayagiri and Khandagiri Caves built by Jain
   worshipers.^[82]
   The Neolithic Settlement of Burzahom A clay pot with an animal with
   horns painted Jammu and Kashmir 2014 ii, iii, v (cultural) The
   archaeological site at Burzahom has provided information about
   different stages of societal development from the 4th to the 2nd
   millennium BCE. People initially lived in pit-houses and later built
   houses of mud and brick. There are also remains of megalithic
   structures. Material remains excavated at the site hint at interactions
   with cultures of Central and South West Asia. A painted pot from 2700
   BCE is pictured.^[83]
   Archaeological remains of a Harappa Port-Town, Lothal Archaeological
   site with remains of drainage channels Gujarat 2014 v (cultural) Lothal
   was the only port-town of the Indus Valley civilisation, or Harappan
   Civilization, from the Bronze Age. It was occupied from around 2400 BCE
   to 1600 BCE when it was likely damaged by tidal flooding. The
   settlement consisted of a citadel with wide streets, a warehouse, and a
   port area along the river. Remains found at the site demonstrate trade
   links with the Persian Gulf region. The remains of drainage channels
   are pictured.^[84]
   Mountain Railways of India (Extension) Train on a hilly railway
   Maharashtra, Himachal Pradesh 2014 ii, iv (cultural) This is a proposed
   extension of the existing World Heritage Site. It includes the Matheran
   Hill Railway (pictured) and the Kangra Valley Railway. They were built
   in the early 20th century; construction involved technical innovation
   to overcome difficult mountainous terrain.^[85]
   Chettinad, Village Clusters of the Tamil Merchants A large two-storey
   building with white decorated facade Tamil Nadu 2014 ii, v, vi
   (cultural) This nomination comprises 11 villages in three clusters.
   Wealthy merchants built them in the second half of the 19th and early
   20th centuries. The villages mix urban and rural influences, both Tamil
   and those from a broader region, as a result of the travels of the
   merchants in Southeast Asia. Thousands of palatial houses were built
   using local and imported materials. The most recent ones, built in the
   1930s and 1940s, are in the Art Deco style. An example of a palatial
   house is pictured.^[86]
   Bahá'í House of Worship at New Delhi A temple in the shape of a lotus
   flower Delhi 2014 i, v, vi (cultural) The Lotus Temple is the main
   Baháʼí House of Worship in India. It was inaugurated in 1986. It has
   the shape of a lotus flower, with petals made of concrete and covered
   by marble.^[87]
   Evolution of Temple Architecture – Aihole-Badami-Pattadakal A Hindu
   temple in red stone Karnataka 2015 iii, iv (cultural) This nomination
   comprises several temples in Aihole, Badami, and Pattadakal, that were
   built between the 6th and 8th centuries under the Chalukya dynasty.
   They demonstrated the evolution of Hindu temple architecture with
   rock-cut and free-standing temples and were influential in temples
   built in later periods. The temples at Pattadakal are already listed as
   a World Heritage Site. The Durga Temple in Aihole is pictured.^[88]
   Cold Desert Cultural Landscape of India A monastery in a mountain
   valley covered by snow Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh 2015 iii, v, vi, x
   (mixed) The landscapes in the Himalayas are characterized by high
   altitudes, between 3,000 m (9,800 ft) and 5,000 m (16,000 ft), and
   harsh dry weather and temperatures ranging from above 30 °C (86 °F) in
   summer to below −30 °C (−22 °F) in winter. Two areas are inhabited, the
   Ladakh and the Spiti Valley. The culture is a mixture of Indian and
   Tibetan cultures. Several settlements are linked to Buddhist
   monasteries (Key Monastery pictured). From the natural perspective, the
   area is home to endangered species such as the snow leopard, Tibetan
   antelope, and the Himalayan wolf.^[89]
   Sites along the Uttarapath, Badshahi Sadak, Sadak-e-Azam, Grand Trunk
   Road A stone pillar close to a road several sites 2015 ii, iv, vi
   (cultural) The Grand Trunk Road is one of Asia's oldest and longest
   roads. It connects Afghanistan, Pakistan, India, and Bangladesh. The
   road has been used at least since the times of the Maurya Empire in the
   4th century BCE, has been reconstructed several times in different
   periods, and has been upgraded to modern traffic in the 20th century.
   In addition to trade, the road has been instrumental in the spread of
   ideas, religions, and culture. Several historical sites have been
   preserved along the road. The Kos Minar, a milestone, in Ambala is
   pictured.^[90]
   Keibul Lamjao Conservation Area Lake with some floating plants Manipur
   2016 v, vii, ix, x (mixed) Loktak Lake is a large freshwater lake that
   features a unique type of ecosystem called phumdi, floating islands
   consisting of soil and vegetation. The area is a mixture of aquatic,
   wetland, and terrestrial habitats, and is home to sangai, an endangered
   deer species. There are several villages on the shores of the lake, as
   well as some settlements on the phumdis.^[91]
   Garo Hills Conservation Area (GHCA) A couple in traditional dresses
   Meghalaya 2018 v, vi, viii, x (mixed) Garo Hills are inhabited by the
   Garo people (a couple pictured), a tribe that speaks a language from
   the Tibeto-Burman family. They practice slash-and-burn agriculture
   regulated by community rules to ensure sustainable land use. The area
   is interesting from a geological perspective, with the terrain being
   shaped by the India–Asia collision system. The area is home to Asian
   elephant, gaur, clouded leopard, sambar deer, and five species of
   civet.^[92]
   The historic ensemble of Orchha A palace overlooking a forest and a
   river Madhya Pradesh 2019 ii, iv (cultural) The town of Orchha was
   founded in the 16th century by the Bundela clan to serve as their
   capital. In the following century, it came under Mughal influence. The
   architecture of the fort complex, palaces, temples, and gardens
   represent a mixture of styles from Rajput and Mughal architecture. The
   Jahangir Mahal is pictured.^[93]
   Iconic Riverfront of the Historic City of Varanasi Ganges riverfront
   with steps, temples, people, and boats Uttar Pradesh 2021 iii, iv, vi
   (cultural) Varanasi is a holy city of Hinduism, Buddhism, and Jainism.
   More than 80 ghats (steps to the river bank) are located along the
   Ganges, the holy river, and serve as a place for rituals and festivals.
   Varanasi has been continuously inhabited since at least 1200 BCE, while
   the earliest stone ghats date to the 14th century. Palatial buildings,
   temples, ashrams, and rest houses for pilgrims date to the 18th and
   later centuries. The Ahilya Ghat is pictured.^[94]
   Temples of Kanchipuram A Hindu temple in Tamil style Tamil Nadu 2021
   iv, vi (cultural) Kanchipuram was the capital of the Pallava dynasty
   from the 6th to the 9th century. It is a holy Hindu city which used to
   have hundreds of temples. The architecture marks the shift from
   rock-cut temples to free-standing structures. 11 temples are listed in
   the nomination. The Ekambareswarar Temple is pictured.^[95]
   Hire Benakal, Megalithic Site Several prehistoric dolmens Karnataka
   2021 iii, iv (cultural) Hire Benakal is the largest megalithic site in
   India. The dolmens date to the 1st millennium BCE to the Iron Age and
   provide information about the culture that constructed India's first
   large-scale monuments. Rock paintings have also been discovered on
   site. Depictions of human figures, riders, and animals date roughly
   from 700 to 500 BCE, while some paintings are older, from the
   Mesolithic.^[96]
   Bhedaghat-Lametaghat in Narmada Valley River flowing through a gorge
   with white marble stones Madhya Pradesh 2021 vii, viii (natural) At
   Bhedaghat, the Narmada River has carved a canyon through a mountain of
   white marble (pictured), creating a landscape that is both popular with
   tourists for its perceived beauty and of special interest for
   geologists. The Lameta Formation contains several fossils, including
   those of dinosaurs and crocodilians.^[97]
   Satpura Tiger Reserve River, forest, and hills scenery Madhya Pradesh
   2021 vii, ix, x (natural) The forests in the Satpura Range hills are
   protected as a habitat for a large population of tiger. The area acts
   as a faunal bridge between the Western Ghats and the Himalayas and is
   also home to several endangered plant species.^[98]
   Serial Nomination of Maratha Military Architecture in Maharashtra Two
   fortress towers, partially in ruin Maharashtra 2021 ii, iii, iv
   (cultural) This nomination comprises 14 forts in Maharashtra. They are
   typically constructed of basalt rocks on the hills and were used for
   defensive purposes in different historical periods. The forts are
   connected to the Marathi ruler Chhatrapati Shivaji, who commissioned
   several of them in the 17th century. The Raigad Fort is pictured.^[99]
   Geoglyphs of Konkan Region of India Geoglyphs of Konkan Goa
   Maharashtra, Goa 2022 i, iii, iv (cultural) This nomination comprises
   10 sites with geoglyphs in the Konkan coast. They date from the
   Mesolithic period, about ten millennia BCE to the second millennium
   BCE. They depict animals, human figures, and abstract art, and are
   related to the transition from hunter-gatherer societies to settled
   ones.^[100]
   Jingkieng jri: Living Root Bridge Cultural Landscapes Two bridges,
   consisting of tree roots, crossing a river Meghalaya 2022 i, iii, vi
   (cultural) A living root bridge is a type of simple suspension bridge
   formed of living plant roots by tree shaping. They are handmade from
   the aerial roots of rubber fig trees (Ficus elastica) over several
   generations and are common in the communities of the Khasi people. The
   bridges reflect a harmonious relationship between people and nature. An
   example of such a bridge in Nongriat village is pictured.^[101]
   Sri Veerabhadra Temple and Monolithic Bull (Nandi), Lepakshi (The
   Vijayanagara Sculpture and Painting Art Tradition) A Hindu temple in
   stone Andhra Pradesh 2022 i, ii, vi (cultural) The Hindu temple is
   located in the village of Lepakshi. The temple's construction started
   around 1100, while the major development took place during the period
   of the Vijayanagara Empire, from 1350 to 1600, when a large complex was
   built. The temple contains important examples of Vijayanagara art,
   including the only surviving frescoes from that period. A large
   monolithic bull (Nandi) is located on the temple grounds.^[102]
   Sun Temple, Modhera and its adjoining monuments A Hindu temple complex
   in stone Gujarat 2022 i, iv (cultural) The temple complex, a prominent
   example of the Māru-Gurjara style from the 11th century, is dedicated
   to the Sun God. It has three components: Gūḍhamanḍapa, the shrine hall;
   Sabhamanḍapa, the assembly hall; and Kunḍa, the reservoir.^[103]
   Rock-cut Sculptures and Reliefs of the Unakoti, Unakoti Range, Unakoti
   District Rock cut bas relief of Hindu deity Tripura 2022 i, iv
   (cultural) Unakoti features colossal rock cut panels and bas relief
   sculptures depicting Hindu deities, which date from the 8th and 9th
   centuries. They were created by the adherents of Shaivism, with the
   style influenced by local folk arts.^[104]
   Vadnagar – A multi-layered Historic town, Gujarat A torana gate in
   stone Gujarat 2022 ii, v (cultural) The town has been continuously
   occupied since 750 BCE, with monuments such as gates (Kirti Toran
   pictured), fortresses, and temples constructed throughout different
   historical periods. Remains found on site demonstrate the trade
   connections with the Indo-Greek Kingdom and the Roman Empire.^[105]

See also[edit]

     * List of Intangible Cultural Heritage elements in India
     * National Geological Monuments of India
     * Monuments of National Importance of India
     * List of rock-cut temples in India
     * List of forts in India
     * List of museums in India
     * Tourism in India

References[edit]

    1. ^ "The World Heritage Convention". UNESCO World Heritage Centre.
       Archived from the original on August 27, 2016. Retrieved September
       21, 2010.
    2. ^ "Convention Concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and
       Natural Heritage". UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived from the
       original on February 1, 2021. Retrieved February 3, 2021.
    3. ^ ^a ^b ^c ^d "India". UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived from
       the original on November 12, 2021. Retrieved March 27, 2022.
    4. ^ ^a ^b "Successful preservation of India's Manas Wildlife
       Sanctuary enables withdrawal from the List of World Heritage in
       Dange". UNESCO. Archived from the original on June 28, 2011.
       Retrieved June 21, 2011.
    5. ^ ^a ^b "Cologne Cathedral (Germany), Djoudj Bird Sanctuary
       (Senegal), Ichkeul National Park (Tunisia), and Hampi (India)
       removed from List of World Heritage in Danger". UNESCO. July 10,
       2006. Archived from the original on June 5, 2011. Retrieved May 12,
       2011.
    6. ^ ^a ^b "The Architectural Work of Le Corbusier, an Outstanding
       Contribution to the Modern Movement". UNESCO World Heritage Centre.
       Archived from the original on November 24, 2018. Retrieved December
       10, 2020.
    7. ^ "UNESCO World Heritage Centre – The Criteria for Selection".
       UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived from the original on 12 June
       2016. Retrieved 17 August 2018.
    8. ^ "Ajanta Caves". UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived from the
       original on December 18, 2008. Retrieved April 3, 2022.
    9. ^ "Ellora Caves". UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived from the
       original on December 9, 2016. Retrieved April 3, 2022.
   10. ^ "Agra Fort". ICOMOS. Archived from the original on July 17, 2020.
       Retrieved April 3, 2022.
   11. ^ "Agra Fort". UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived from the
       original on July 17, 2010. Retrieved April 3, 2022.
   12. ^ "Taj Mahal". UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived from the
       original on March 15, 2021. Retrieved April 3, 2022.
   13. ^ "Sun Temple, Konârak". UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived
       from the original on April 3, 2015. Retrieved April 3, 2022.
   14. ^ "Group of Monuments at Mahabalipuram". UNESCO World Heritage
       Centre. Archived from the original on December 2, 2019. Retrieved
       April 3, 2022.
   15. ^ "Kaziranga National Park". UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived
       from the original on July 3, 2010. Retrieved April 3, 2022.
   16. ^ "Manas Wildlife Sanctuary". UNESCO World Heritage Centre.
       Archived from the original on February 13, 2006. Retrieved April 3,
       2022.
   17. ^ "Keoladeo National Park". UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived
       from the original on October 30, 2010. Retrieved April 3, 2022.
   18. ^ "Churches and Convents of Goa". UNESCO World Heritage Centre.
       Archived from the original on July 3, 2010. Retrieved April 3,
       2022.
   19. ^ "Khajuraho Group of Monuments". UNESCO World Heritage Centre.
       Archived from the original on November 16, 2018. Retrieved April 3,
       2022.
   20. ^ "Group of Monuments at Hampi". UNESCO World Heritage Centre.
       Archived from the original on November 19, 2005. Retrieved April 3,
       2022.
   21. ^ "Fatehpur Sikri". UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived from the
       original on May 14, 2011. Retrieved April 3, 2022.
   22. ^ "Group of Monuments at Pattadakal". UNESCO World Heritage Centre.
       Archived from the original on March 26, 2014. Retrieved April 3,
       2022.
   23. ^ "Elephanta Caves". UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived from
       the original on April 14, 2020. Retrieved April 3, 2022.
   24. ^ "Great Living Chola Temples". UNESCO World Heritage Centre.
       Archived from the original on January 5, 2013. Retrieved April 3,
       2022.
   25. ^ "Decision 28 COM 14B.32. Extension of Properties Inscribed on the
       World Heritage List (Great Living Chola Temples)". UNESCO World
       Heritage Centre. Archived from the original on April 21, 2022.
       Retrieved April 3, 2022.
   26. ^ "Sundarbans National Park". UNESCO World Heritage Centre.
       Archived from the original on March 6, 2012. Retrieved April 3,
       2022.
   27. ^ "The Sundarbans". UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived from the
       original on July 3, 2010. Retrieved May 28, 2010.
   28. ^ "Nanda Devi and Valley of Flowers National Parks". UNESCO World
       Heritage Centre. Archived from the original on September 29, 2016.
       Retrieved April 3, 2022.
   29. ^ "Decision 29 COM 8B.14. Nominations of Natural Properties to the
       World Heritage List (Nanda Devi National Park)". UNESCO World
       Heritage Centre. Archived from the original on April 21, 2022.
       Retrieved April 3, 2022.
   30. ^ "Buddhist Monuments at Sanchi". UNESCO World Heritage Centre.
       Archived from the original on July 3, 2010. Retrieved April 3,
       2022.
   31. ^ "Humayun's Tomb, Delhi". UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived
       from the original on May 27, 2019. Retrieved April 3, 2022.
   32. ^ "Qutb Minar and its Monuments, Delhi". UNESCO World Heritage
       Centre. Archived from the original on November 27, 2018. Retrieved
       April 3, 2022.
   33. ^ "Mountain Railways of India". UNESCO World Heritage Centre.
       Archived from the original on May 3, 2006. Retrieved April 3, 2022.
   34. ^ "Mahabodhi Temple Complex at Bodh Gaya". UNESCO World Heritage
       Centre. Archived from the original on November 5, 2020. Retrieved
       April 3, 2022.
   35. ^ "Rock Shelters of Bhimbetka". UNESCO World Heritage Centre.
       Archived from the original on March 8, 2007. Retrieved April 3,
       2022.
   36. ^ "Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus (formerly Victoria Terminus)".
       UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived from the original on
       November 27, 2018. Retrieved April 3, 2022.
   37. ^ "Champaner-Pavagadh Archaeological Park". UNESCO World Heritage
       Centre. Archived from the original on July 4, 2010. Retrieved April
       3, 2022.
   38. ^ "Red Fort Complex". UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived from
       the original on August 3, 2009. Retrieved April 3, 2022.
   39. ^ "The Jantar Mantar, Jaipur". UNESCO World Heritage Centre.
       Archived from the original on October 5, 2010. Retrieved April 3,
       2022.
   40. ^ "Western Ghats". UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived from the
       original on July 4, 2018. Retrieved April 3, 2022.
   41. ^ "Hill Forts of Rajasthan". UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived
       from the original on June 25, 2013. Retrieved April 3, 2022.
   42. ^ "Rani-ki-Vav (the Queen's Stepwell) at Patan, Gujarat". UNESCO
       World Heritage Centre. Archived from the original on December 26,
       2018. Retrieved April 3, 2022.
   43. ^ "Great Himalayan National Park Conservation Area". UNESCO World
       Heritage Centre. Archived from the original on July 4, 2018.
       Retrieved April 3, 2022.
   44. ^ "Archaeological Site of Nalanda Mahavihara at Nalanda, Bihar".
       UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived from the original on
       September 27, 2018. Retrieved April 3, 2022.
   45. ^ "Khangchendzonga National Park". UNESCO World Heritage Centre.
       Archived from the original on July 11, 2018. Retrieved April 3,
       2022.
   46. ^ "Historic City of Ahmadabad". UNESCO World Heritage Centre.
       Archived from the original on July 4, 2018. Retrieved April 3,
       2022.
   47. ^ "Victorian Gothic and Art Deco Ensembles of Mumbai". UNESCO World
       Heritage Centre. Archived from the original on July 7, 2018.
       Retrieved April 3, 2022.
   48. ^ "Jaipur City, Rajasthan". UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived
       from the original on May 10, 2020. Retrieved April 3, 2022.
   49. ^ "Kakatiya Rudreshwara (Ramappa) Temple, Telangana". UNESCO World
       Heritage Centre. Archived from the original on July 25, 2021.
       Retrieved April 3, 2022.
   50. ^ "Dholavira: a Harappan City". UNESCO World Heritage Centre.
       Archived from the original on April 17, 2017. Retrieved April 3,
       2022.
   51. ^ "Santiniketan". UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived from the
       original on May 16, 2022. Retrieved May 3, 2022.
   52. ^ "Santiniketan". UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived from the
       original on September 20, 2023. Retrieved September 19, 2023.
   53. ^ "Sacred Ensembles of the Hoysala". UNESCO World Heritage Centre.
       Archived from the original on December 4, 2018. Retrieved May 3,
       2022.
   54. ^ "Sacred Ensembles of the Hoysalas". UNESCO World Heritage Centre.
       Archived from the original on October 13, 2023. Retrieved September
       19, 2023.
   55. ^ "Tentative Lists". UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived from
       the original on April 1, 2016. Retrieved October 7, 2010.
   56. ^ "Temples at Bishnupur, West Bengal". UNESCO World Heritage
       Centre. Archived from the original on May 16, 2022. Retrieved May
       3, 2022.
   57. ^ "Mattanchery Palace, Ernakulam, Kerala". UNESCO World Heritage
       Centre. Archived from the original on May 17, 2022. Retrieved May
       3, 2022.
   58. ^ "Group of Monuments at Mandu, Madhya Pradesh". UNESCO World
       Heritage Centre. Archived from the original on May 16, 2022.
       Retrieved May 3, 2022.
   59. ^ "Ancient Buddhist Site, Sarnath, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh". UNESCO
       World Heritage Centre. Archived from the original on November 26,
       2021. Retrieved May 3, 2022.
   60. ^ "Sri Harimandir Sahib, Amritsar, Punjab". UNESCO World Heritage
       Centre. Archived from the original on May 16, 2022. Retrieved May
       3, 2022.
   61. ^ "River Island of Majuli in midstream of Brahmaputra River in
       Assam". UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived from the original on
       May 16, 2022. Retrieved May 3, 2022.
   62. ^ "Namdapha National Park". UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived
       from the original on September 18, 2023. Retrieved May 3, 2022.
   63. ^ "Wild Ass Sanctuary, Little Rann of Kutch". UNESCO World Heritage
       Centre. Archived from the original on May 16, 2022. Retrieved May
       3, 2022.
   64. ^ "Neora Valley National Park". UNESCO World Heritage Centre.
       Archived from the original on May 17, 2022. Retrieved May 3, 2022.
   65. ^ "Desert National Park". UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived
       from the original on May 16, 2022. Retrieved May 3, 2022.
   66. ^ "Silk Road Sites in India". UNESCO World Heritage Centre.
       Archived from the original on May 1, 2022. Retrieved May 3, 2022.
   67. ^ "The Qutb Shahi Monuments of Hyderabad Golconda Fort, Qutb Shahi
       Tombs, Charminar". UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived from the
       original on February 1, 2018. Retrieved May 3, 2022.
   68. ^ "Mughal Gardens in Kashmir". UNESCO World Heritage Centre.
       Archived from the original on May 16, 2022. Retrieved May 3, 2022.
   69. ^ "Delhi - A Heritage City". UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived
       from the original on April 24, 2018. Retrieved May 3, 2022.
   70. ^ "Monuments and Forts of the Deccan Sultanate". UNESCO World
       Heritage Centre. Archived from the original on February 28, 2018.
       Retrieved May 3, 2022.
   71. ^ "Cellular Jail, Andaman Islands". UNESCO World Heritage Centre.
       Archived from the original on May 17, 2022. Retrieved May 3, 2022.
   72. ^ "Iconic Saree Weaving Clusters of India". UNESCO World Heritage
       Centre. Archived from the original on May 10, 2022. Retrieved May
       3, 2022.
   73. ^ "Apatani Cultural Landscape". UNESCO World Heritage Centre.
       Archived from the original on August 10, 2019. Retrieved May 3,
       2022.
   74. ^ "Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple, Srirangam". UNESCO World Heritage
       Centre. Archived from the original on May 16, 2022. Retrieved May
       3, 2022.
   75. ^ "Monuments of Srirangapatna Island Town". UNESCO World Heritage
       Centre. Archived from the original on May 16, 2022. Retrieved May
       3, 2022.
   76. ^ "Chilika Lake". UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived from the
       original on August 24, 2019. Retrieved May 3, 2022.
   77. ^ "Padmanabhapuram Palace". UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived
       from the original on May 17, 2022. Retrieved May 3, 2022.
   78. ^ "Sites of Satyagrah, India's non-violent freedom movement".
       UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived from the original on May 16,
       2022. Retrieved May 3, 2022.
   79. ^ "Thembang Fortified Village". UNESCO World Heritage Centre.
       Archived from the original on May 16, 2022. Retrieved May 3, 2022.
   80. ^ "Narcondam Island". UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived from
       the original on May 16, 2022. Retrieved May 3, 2022.
   81. ^ "Moidams – the Mound-Burial system of the Ahom Dynasty". UNESCO
       World Heritage Centre. Archived from the original on May 16, 2022.
       Retrieved May 3, 2022.
   82. ^ "Ekamra Kshetra – The Temple City, Bhubaneswar". UNESCO World
       Heritage Centre. Archived from the original on October 1, 2018.
       Retrieved May 3, 2022.
   83. ^ "Burzahom archaeological site". UNESCO World Heritage Centre.
       Archived from the original on May 16, 2022. Retrieved May 3, 2022.
   84. ^ "Archaeological remains of a Harappa Port-Town, Lothal". UNESCO
       World Heritage Centre. Archived from the original on May 16, 2022.
       Retrieved May 3, 2022.
   85. ^ "Mountain Railways of India (Extension)". UNESCO World Heritage
       Centre. Archived from the original on May 16, 2022. Retrieved May
       3, 2022.
   86. ^ "Chettinad, Village Clusters of the Tamil Merchants". UNESCO
       World Heritage Centre. Archived from the original on May 18, 2022.
       Retrieved May 3, 2022.
   87. ^ "Bahá'í House of Worship at New Delhi". UNESCO World Heritage
       Centre. Archived from the original on August 26, 2016. Retrieved
       May 3, 2022.
   88. ^ "Evolution of Temple Architecture – Aihole-Badami-Pattadakal".
       UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived from the original on May 16,
       2022. Retrieved May 3, 2022.
   89. ^ "Cold Desert Cultural Landscape of India". UNESCO World Heritage
       Centre. Archived from the original on May 27, 2022. Retrieved June
       3, 2022.
   90. ^ "Sites along the Uttarapath, Badshahi Sadak, Sadak-e-Azam, Grand
       Trunk Road". UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived from the
       original on January 17, 2018. Retrieved June 3, 2022.
   91. ^ "Keibul Lamjao Conservation Area". UNESCO World Heritage Centre.
       Archived from the original on July 15, 2017. Retrieved June 3,
       2022.
   92. ^ "Garo Hills Conservation Area (GHCA)". UNESCO World Heritage
       Centre. Archived from the original on November 12, 2018. Retrieved
       June 3, 2022.
   93. ^ "The historic ensemble of Orchha". UNESCO World Heritage Centre.
       Archived from the original on July 6, 2019. Retrieved June 3, 2022.
   94. ^ "Iconic Riverfront of the Historic City of Varanasi". UNESCO
       World Heritage Centre. Archived from the original on April 25,
       2022. Retrieved June 3, 2022.
   95. ^ "Temples of Kanchipuram". UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived
       from the original on May 8, 2022. Retrieved June 3, 2022.
   96. ^ "Hire Benkal, Megalithic Site". UNESCO World Heritage Centre.
       Archived from the original on April 26, 2022. Retrieved June 3,
       2022.
   97. ^ "Bhedaghat-Lametaghat in Narmada Valley". UNESCO World Heritage
       Centre. Archived from the original on March 31, 2022. Retrieved
       June 3, 2022.
   98. ^ "Satpura Tiger Reserve". UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived
       from the original on June 7, 2022. Retrieved June 3, 2022.
   99. ^ "Serial Nomination of Maratha Military Architecture in
       Maharashtra". UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived from the
       original on May 8, 2022. Retrieved June 3, 2022.
   100. ^ "Geoglyphs of Konkan Region of India". UNESCO World Heritage
       Centre. Archived from the original on May 16, 2022. Retrieved June
       3, 2022.
   101. ^ "Jingkieng jri: Living Root Bridge Cultural Landscapes". UNESCO
       World Heritage Centre. Archived from the original on June 16, 2022.
       Retrieved June 3, 2022.
   102. ^ "Sri Veerabhadra Temple and Monolithic Bull (Nandi), Lepakshi
       (The Vijayanagara Sculpture and Painting Art Tradition)". UNESCO
       World Heritage Centre. Archived from the original on May 17, 2022.
       Retrieved June 3, 2022.
   103. ^ "Sun Temple, Modhera and its adjoining monuments". UNESCO World
       Heritage Centre. Archived from the original on December 21, 2022.
       Retrieved December 21, 2022.
   104. ^ "Rock-cut Sculptures and Reliefs of the Unakoti, Unakoti Range,
       Unakoti District". UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Archived from the
       original on August 29, 2023. Retrieved December 21, 2022.
   105. ^ "Vadnagar – A multi-layered Historic town, Gujarat". UNESCO
       World Heritage Centre. Archived from the original on December 21,
       2022. Retrieved December 21, 2022.

External links[edit]

   Wikimedia Commons has media related to World Heritage Sites in India.
   Wikivoyage has a travel guide for UNESCO World Heritage List (India).
     * v
     * t
     * e

   World Heritage Sites in India

   North

     * Agra Fort
     * The Architectural Work of Le Corbusier
          + Complexe du Capitole
     * Fatehpur Sikri
     * Great Himalayan National Park
     * Humayun's Tomb
     * Keoladeo National Park
     * Kalka–Shimla railway
     * Nanda Devi and Valley of Flowers National Parks
     * Qutub Minar and its Monuments
     * Red Fort Complex
     * Taj Mahal

   Flag of India Flag of India

   East

     * Darjeeling Himalayan Railway
     * Mahabodhi Temple Complex
     * Nalanda
     * Shantiniketan
     * Sun Temple at Konark
     * Sundarbans National Park

   Northeast

     * Kaziranga National Park
     * Manas Wildlife Sanctuary
     * Khangchendzonga National Park

   South

     * Great Living Chola Temples
     * Group of Monuments at Hampi
     * Group of Monuments at Mahabalipuram
     * Group of Monuments at Pattadakal
     * Nilgiri Mountain Railway
     * Ramappa Temple
     * Sacred Ensembles of the Hoysalas
          + Chennakeshava Temple
          + Hoysaleswara Temple
          + Keshava Temple
     * Western Ghats

   Central

     * Rock Shelters of Bhimbetka
     * Khajuraho Group of Monuments
     * Buddhist Monuments at Sanchi

   West

     * Historic City of Ahmadabad
     * Ajanta Caves
     * Champaner-Pavagadh Archaeological Park
     * Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus
     * Churches and convents of Goa
     * Dholavira
     * Elephanta Caves
     * Ellora Caves
     * Hill Forts of Rajasthan
          + Chittor Fort
          + Kumbhalgarh
          + Ranthambore Fort
          + Gagron Fort
          + Amer Fort
          + Jaisalmer Fort
     * Jaipur
     * Jantar Mantar of Jaipur
     * Rani ki vav
     * Western Ghats
     * Victorian Gothic and Art Deco Ensembles of Mumbai

     * v
     * t
     * e

   Lists of World Heritage Sites in Asia

   Northern and Central Asia

     * Kazakhstan
     * Kyrgyzstan
     * Russia
     * Tajikistan
     * Turkmenistan
     * Uzbekistan
          + Former Soviet Union

   UNESCO World Heritage logo

   Western Asia
   (including Arab States)

     * Armenia
     * Azerbaijan
     * Bahrain
     * Cyprus
     * Georgia
     * Iran
     * Iraq
     * Israel
     * Jordan
     * Lebanon
     * Oman
     * Palestine
     * Qatar
     * Saudi Arabia
     * Syria
     * Turkey
     * United Arab Emirates
     * Yemen

   Eastern Asia

     * China
     * Japan
     * Mongolia
     * North Korea
     * South Korea

   Southern Asia

     * Afghanistan
     * Bangladesh
     * India
     * Nepal
     * Pakistan
     * Sri Lanka

   Southeast Asia

     * Cambodia
     * Indonesia
     * Laos
     * Malaysia
     * Myanmar
     * Philippines
     * Singapore
     * Thailand
     * Vietnam

     * v
     * t
     * e

   India topics

   History
   Overviews
     * Timeline
     * Years

     * Astronomy
     * Clothing
     * Coinage
     * Economics
     * LGBT
     * Linguistics
     * Maritime
     * Mathematics
     * Metallurgy
     * Military
     * Paper currency
     * Postal
     * Science and technology

   Ancient
     * Stone Age
     * Indus Valley civilization
     * Vedic period
     * Mahajanapadas
     * Mauryas
     * Yavana Kingdom
     * Achaemenid conquest of the Indus Valley
     * Indo-Parthian Kingdom
     * Kushan Empire
     * Alchon Huns
     * Seleucid–Mauryan war

   Middle Kingdoms
     * Middle kingdoms
     * Chola

   Middle Ages
     * Medieval India
     * Hoysala
     * Pala
     * Kakatiya
     * Delhi Sultanate
     * Vijayanagara

   Early Modern
     * Mughals
     * Marathas
     * European trade
     * Bengal War

   Late modern
     * Colonial
     * Princely state
     * East India Company
     * Plassey
     * 1857 rebellion
     * British Raj
     * Railways
     * Economy
     * Army
          + Commander-in-Chief
     * Zamindari
     * Bengal Renaissance
     * Political reforms
     * Partition of Bengal
     * Independence movement
     * 1943 famine
     * World War II
     * Partition

   Republic
     * Integration
     * Non-Aligned Movement
     * Five-Year Plans
     * Sino-Indian War
     * Indo-Pakistani wars
     * Green Revolution
     * White Revolution
     * Naxal Insurgency
     * Smiling Buddha
     * Space programme
     * The Emergency
     * Indian Peace Keeping Force (IPKF)

   Contemporary
     * History of India (1947–present)
     * Economic liberalisation
     * Pokhran-II
     * COVID-19 pandemic

   Geography
   Environment
     * Biosphere reserves
     * Climate
     * Climate change
     * Earthquakes
     * Ecoregions
     * Environmental issues
     * Fauna
     * Flora
     * Geology
     * National parks
     * Protected areas
     * Wildlife
     * sanctuaries

   Landforms
     * Beaches
     * Desert
     * Extreme points
     * Glaciers
     * Islands
     * Lakes
     * Mountains
     * Plains
          + Indo-Gangetic
          + Eastern coastal
          + Western coastal
     * Rivers
     * Valleys
     * Volcanoes
     * Waterfalls

   Regions
     * East
     * North
     * Northeast
     * South
     * West

   Subdivisions
     * Autonomous administrative divisions
     * Borders
     * Towns
     * Cities
     * Districts
     * Municipalities
     * States and union territories

   Politics
   Government
     * Agencies
     * Energy policy
     * Foreign relations
     * Parliament
          + Lok Sabha
          + Rajya Sabha
     * President
     * Vice President
     * Prime Minister
     * Union Council of Ministers
     * Civil Services
     * Cabinet Secretary
     * State governments
          + State legislative assemblies
          + State legislative councils
     * Governors, Lieutenant Governors and Administrators
     * Chief Ministers
     * Chief Secretaries

   Law
     * Constitution
     * Penal Code
     * Fundamental rights, principles and duties
     * Human rights
          + LGBT
     * Supreme Court
     * Chief Justice
     * High Courts
     * District Courts

   Enforcement
   Federal
     * Border Security Force (BSF)
     * Central Industrial Security Force (CISF)
     * Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF)
     * Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP)
     * National Security Guard (NSG)
     * Railway Protection Force (RPF)
     * Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB)
     * Special Protection Group (SPG)

   Intelligence
     * Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD)
     * Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI)
     * Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI)
     * Enforcement Directorate (ED)
     * Intelligence Bureau (IB)
     * Joint Intelligence Committee (JIC)
     * Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB)
     * National Investigation Agency (NIA)
     * Research and Analysis Wing (RAW)

   Military
     * Army
     * Navy
     * Air Force

   Politics
     * Censorship
     * Citizenship
     * Elections
     * Nationalism
     * Political parties
     * Reservations
     * Scandals
     * Scheduled groups
     * Secularism
     * Women in politics

   Economy
       Companies
     * BSE SENSEX
     * NIFTY 50

   Governance
     * Ministry of Finance
          + Finance ministers
     * Ministry of Commerce and Industry
     * Finance Commission
     * Economic Advisory Council
     * Central Statistical Office
     * Securities and Exchange Board of India
     * Enforcement Directorate
     * External debt
     * Foreign trade
     * Foreign direct investment
     * Foreign exchange reserves
     * Remittances
     * Taxation
     * Subsidies
     * Industrial licensing
     * Voluntary guidelines
     * NITI Aayog
     * Make in India
     * Atmanirbhar Bharat

   Currency
     * Indian rupee
          + Sign
          + History
          + Historical Forex
          + Digital rupee
          + Coinage
          + Paisa
     * Reserve Bank of India
          + Governor
          + Mint
     * Inflation

   Financial services
     * Banking
     * Insurance
     * Multi Commodity Exchange
     * Bullion
     * Black money
          + Bombay
          + National

   History
     * COVID-19 impact
     * Economic development
     * Liberalisation
     * Licence Raj
     * Green revolution
     * Government initiatives
     * Numbering system

   People
     * By net worth
     * Demography
     * Income
          + Poverty
     * Labour law
     * Pensions
          + EPFO
          + NPS
          + PPF

   States
     * Andhra Pradesh
     * Assam
     * Bihar
     * Delhi
     * Goa
     * Gujarat
     * Haryana
     * Himachal Pradesh
     * Jammu and Kashmir
     * Jharkhand
     * Karnataka
     * Kerala
     * Ladakh
     * Madhya Pradesh
     * Maharashtra
     * Mizoram
     * Odisha
     * Punjab
     * Rajasthan
     * Tamil Nadu
     * Telangana
     * Uttarakhand
     * Uttar Pradesh
     * West Bengal

   Sectors
     * Agriculture
          + Livestock
          + Fishing
     * Automotive
     * Chemical
     * Construction
     * Defence
     * Education
     * Energy
          + Electricity
               o Nuclear
               o Oil and gas
               o Solar
               o Wind
     * Electronics and semiconductor
     * Entertainment
     * Forestry
     * Gambling
     * Healthcare
     * Information technology
     * Media
          + Cinema
          + FM Radio
          + Television
          + Printing
     * Mining
          + Coal
          + Iron and Steel
     * Pharmaceuticals
     * Pulp and paper
     * Retail
     * Science and technology
          + Biotechnology
     * Space
     * Telecommunications
     * Textiles
     * Tourism
     * Transport
          + Aviation
               o Civil
          + Ports
          + Rail
          + Roads
          + Electricity
          + Water
          + Power

   Regulator
     * IRDAI
     * RBI
     * SEBI
     * IBBI

   Other
     * NCLT
          + NCLAT
     * BIFR
     * IBBI
     * IBC
     * SARFESI Act
     * Income Tax Act
     * Companies Act
     * Banking Act
     * Insurance Act
     * FEMA
     * Mumbai Consensus

     * Society and culture

   Society
     * Caste system
     * Corruption
     * Demographics
          + Indians
     * Women
     * Education
          + Universities in India
          + Medical colleges in India
          + Law colleges in India
          + Engineering colleges in India
     * Ethnic relations
     * Healthcare
          + Hospitals in India
     * Languages
     * Literacy
     * Poverty
     * Prisons
     * Religion
     * Socio-economic issues
     * Standard of living
     * Water supply and sanitation
     * Sexuality
     * Crime
     * Youth

   Culture
     * Arts and entertainment
     * Architecture
     * Blogging
     * Cinema
     * Comics
          + Webcomics
     * Cuisine
          + wine
     * Dance
     * Dress
     * Folklore
     * Festivals
     * Literature
     * Media
          + television
     * Martial arts
     * Music
     * Painting
     * Public holidays
     * Sculpture
          + tallest
     * Sport
          + Traditional

     * v
     * t
     * e

   India Tourism in India

   By state

     * Highest points of each state
     * Andhra Pradesh
     * Andaman and Nicobar Islands
     * Assam
     * Bihar
     * Delhi
     * Chhattisgarh
     * Goa
     * Gujarat
     * Himachal Pradesh
     * Jammu and Kashmir
     * Jharkhand
     * Haryana
     * Karnataka
     * Kerala
     * Ladakh
     * Madhya Pradesh
     * Maharashtra
     * Mizoram
     * Northeast India
     * Odisha
     * Puducherry
     * Punjab
     * Rajasthan
     * Telangana
     * Tamil Nadu
     * Uttar Pradesh
     * Uttarakhand
     * West Bengal

   By city

     * Aurangabad
     * Bangalore
     * Chennai
     * Coimbatore
     * Hyderabad
     * Jaipur
     * Kolkata
     * Kozhikode
     * Lucknow
     * Madurai
     * Mumbai
     * Mysore
     * Patna
     * Prayagraj
     * Surat
     * Tiruchirappalli
     * Udaipur
     * Vellore
     * Vijayawada

   Types

     * Hindi cinema
          + International Film Festival of India
          + Mumbai Film City
          + Hydrabad Ramoji Film City

     * Borders of India
          + Border ceremonies
          + Border markets
          + Border crossings
          + List of extreme points of India

     * Bridges
          + Historical bridges
          + Chenab Rail Bridge
          + Living root bridges
          + Longest bridges overall
          + Longest above water

     * Diaspora and colonial past
          + Anglo-Indians
          + Old China Market, Kolkata
          + French India
               o Pondicherry
               o Karaikal
               o Yanaon
               o Mahe
          + Korean India
               o Memorial of Heo Hwang-ok
          + Portuguese India
               o Goa
               o Daman and Diu
          + Tibetan India
               o Dharamshala
               o Majnu-ka-tilla

     * X of India
          + Switzerland of India
               o Auli
               o Barot
               o Gulmarg
               o Kausani
               o Khajjiar
               o Manipur
          + Venice of India
               o Alappuzha
          + Grand Canyon of India
               o Gandikota
          + Niagara Falls of India
               o Chitrakote Falls
          + Scotland of India
               o Coorg

     * List of festivals in India
          + Fairs: Melās
          + Annual rural Olympics of India: Qila Raipur Sports Festival
          + Festival of ancient LGBT rituals: Koovagam temple festival
          + Festival of bull running: Jallikattu
          + Festival of cannabis: Ambubachi Mela, Hola Mohalla, Holi, Maha
            Shivaratri
          + Festival of colors: Holi
          + Festival of colorful: Lathmar Holi
          + Festival of dance: Garba
          + Festival of divine knowledge: Gita Mahotsav
          + Festival of girl child worship: Kanya Puja
          + Festival of human pyramids: Dahi Handi
          + Festival of the Indus river: Sindhu Darshan Festival
          + Festival of kite flying: Uttarayana
          + Festival of knowledge ad arts worship: Saraswati pouja
          + Festival of lights: Diwali
          + Festival of siblings: Raksha Bandhan
          + Festival of snake boat races: Vallam kali
          + National festivals: Public holidays in India
          + World's largest fair with 50 million attendees: Kumbh Mela

     * Festivals of arts and culture
          + Delhi Queer Pride Parade
          + Desert Festival of sand dunes
          + Rann Utsav
          + Surajkund International Crafts Mela

     * Food tourism
          + Cuisine by states
          + Tea estate tourism
               o Munnar
               o Darjeeling
               o Kalimpong
          + Food
               o Paan
               o Panipuri
          + Drinks
               o Bhang lassi
               o Desi daru
               o Indian whisky
               o Indian beer
               o Old Monk rum
               o Kasauli Brewery, the oldest brewery in India

     * Geological heritage sites
          + Magnetic hills
          + Caves of Meghalaya
          + Ghat Roads
          + Himalayas
          + Western Ghats
          + Tallest mountains

     * Historical and Archaeological
          + Archaeological sites
          + Archaeoastronomical sites
          + Ashoka pillars
          + Bhimbetka
          + Cave temples
          + Cave paintings
          + Colossal in situ sculptures
          + Dolmens
          + Forts
          + Fossil
          + Havelis
          + India Gate
          + IVC sites
          + Menhirs
          + Monuments
          + Museums
          + National heritage sites
          + Rrock-cut temples
          + World heritage sites
          + Stepwells

     * Nature
          + Beaches
          + Caves
          + Caves of Maharashtra
          + Coral reefs
          + Caves of Meghalaya
          + Hill stations
          + Highest points of each state
          +
          + Islands
               o Floating islands of Loktak Lake
               o Floating island of Prashar Lake
          +
          + Lakes
               o Chilika Lake
               o Roopkund lake of skeletons
               o Floating islands of Loktak Lake
               o Floating island of Prashar Lake
          +
          + Mountains
          + Rice terraces of Himalayas
          + Scenic Ghat roads
          + Waterfalls
          +
          + Wildlife
               o National parks
               o Protected areas
               o Sacred groves of India
               o Largest tree span of the world

     * Railway
          + Aerial tramways
          + Luxury trains
          + UNESCO Heritage Mountain railways
          + UNESCO Heritage Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus
          + Matheran Hill Railway

     * Indian religions
          + Buddhism
          + Hinduism
          + Jainism
          + Sikhism
          + Indian religious festivals
               o Hindu festivals
               o Buddhist festivals
               o Jain festivals
               o Sikh festivals
          + Pilgrim yatras
               o Parikrama pilgrim circuits
               o Pilgrimage sites
               o Sacred ghats
               o Sacred girl child as living goddesses
               o Sacred groves
               o Sacred mountains
               o Sacred rivers
               o Sacred trees
               o Golden Temple
          +
          + Varanasi
               o Akhara
               o Kashi Vishwanath Temple
               o Manikarnika Ghat cremation pyres
               o Naga sadhu

     * Foreign religions in India
          +
          + Baháʼí
               o Baháʼí Faith in India
               o Lotus Temple
          + Zoroastrianism
               o Zoroastrianism in India
          + Judaism
               o Bene Ephraim
               o Bene Israel
               o Bnei Menashe
               o Cochin Jews
               o Desi Jews
               o Meshuchrarim
               o Paradesi Jews
               o Sephardic Jews in India

     * Novelty
          + Kargil Maitreya Buddhas
          + Malana valley
          + Hindu weddings
          + Haunted ruined city of Kuldhara
          + Haunted and wild leopards's den of Bhangarh Fort
          + Banyan trees
          + World's highest race
          + Valley of Flowers
          + Temple for rats
          + Ancient Veerabhadra Temple

     * Specialty
          + Aerial tramways
          + Atomic tourism and Pokhran
          + Ayurvedic tourism
          + Golden Triangle
          + Medical tourism
          + New 7 Wonders
          + Sex tourism
          + Yoga tourism

     * Sport
          + Royal Enfield biking
          + Car Rally
          + Cricket
          + Mountaineering
          + Skiing
          + Great Tibetan Marathon
          + Ladakh Marathon

     * Statues
          + Equestrian
          + Most famous
          + Tallest

     * Tallest structures
          + Buildings
          + Structures
          + Kalisindh Thermal Power Station 202 m
          + Statue of Unity 182 m
          + Gopuram 76 m

     * Tallest towers
          + Rameswaram TV Tower 323 m
          + Jaisalmer TV Tower 300 m
          + Samatra TV Tower 300 m
          + Pitampura TV Tower 235 m

     * War memorials
          + National
          + Military
          + Police
          + Southern Command
          + Amar Jawan Jyoti
          + India Gate
          + Kargil

   Organisations

     * India Tourism Development Corporation
     * Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation
     * Assam Tourism Development Corporation
     * Bihar State Tourism Development Corporation
     * Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation
     * Gujarat Tourism
     * Haryana Tourism Corporation
     * Jammu and Kashmir Tourism Development Corporation
     * Kerala Tourism Development Corporation
     * Madhya Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation
     * Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation
     * Odisha Tourism Development Corporation
     * Rajasthan Tourism Development Corporation
     * Tamil Nadu Tourism Development Corporation
     * Telangana State Tourism Development Corporation
     * Uttar Pradesh Tourism
     * West Bengal Tourism Development Corporation

   See also

     * Incredible India
     * Atithi Devo Bhava
     * Namaste
     * Indianisation
     * Indosphere
     * Sanskritisation
     * Sarva Dharma Sama Bhava
     * Indian diaspora
     * Visa policy of India

     * Category
     * Commons

   Portals:
     * flag  India
     * icon  Society

   Retrieved from
   "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=List_of_World_Heritage_Site
   s_in_Indiaoldid=1192260112"

   Categories:
     * World Heritage Sites in India
     * Lists of tourist attractions in India
     * Lists of World Heritage Sites
     * Historic preservation in India
     * Architecture in India

   Hidden categories:
     * Articles with short description
     * Short description is different from Wikidata
     * Use mdy dates from September 2023
     * Commons category link is on Wikidata

     * This page was last edited on 28 December 2023, at 13:26 (UTC).
     * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike
       License 4.0; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you
       agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a
       registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a
       non-profit organization.

     * Privacy policy
     * About Wikipedia
     * Disclaimers
     * Contact Wikipedia
     * Code of Conduct
     * Developers
     * Statistics
     * Cookie statement
     * Mobile view

     * Wikimedia Foundation
     * Powered by MediaWiki

     * (BUTTON) Toggle limited content width</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-54">
<text>   #Center for Heritage  Society » Feed Center for Heritage  Society »
   Comments Feed Center for Heritage  Society » Home Comments Feed
   alternate alternate

     *
     *
     *
     *

   Center for Heritage  Society

Center for Heritage  Society

University of Massachusetts Amherst

Menu

     * Home
     * Climate Change  Heritage
          + The Future of Our Pasts – WHC 43, Baku, Azerbaijan
          + UNFCCC Warsaw Mechanism on Loss and Damage Meeting
          + Resources for Heritage and Climate Change
     * Cultural Landscapes Initiative
          + Definitions
               o Pastoralism
          + Featured Research
               o Heritage Trees: International Legislation, Research and
                 Registries
               o Informal Settlements and Historic Urban Landscapes
               o Research Abstracts
               o Sustaining a Korean Traditional Rural Landscape
          + World Heritage Cultural Landscapes
               o Rapa Nui: A Cultural Landscape in Isolation
          + Resources
               o International Legal Structures
               o Online Resources for Historic Maps
               o Online Resources for Historic Garden and Landscape Books
                    # 14th Century Books
          + Methodologies
               o Methodologies: Lidar Imaging
               o Participatory Heritage: The Walking Interview
               o Maps as documentary evidence
               o The Importance of Models
          + PROPOSE A PROJECT
     * Projects
          + CHS Leadership Affiliations
          + US/CLICK – Cultural Landscape Practice Knowledge Community
     * Conferences
          + 2023 IDMS Cultural Landscapes, Climate Change
          + 2019 ICOMOS Scientific Symposium
          + 2018 WUN co-sponsored Migration Conference
          + 2017 Migration and Displacement Symposium
          + 2015: CHS Cultural Landscapes
          + Pre 2017 Conferences
     * News
     * About
          + What is Heritage?
          + Why Heritage?
          + People
          + Contact Us

   April 18, 2023 Cultural Landscapes and Climate Change Webinar

April 18, 2023 Cultural Landscapes and Climate Change Webinar

   To celebrate the International Day of Monuments and Sites (IDMS), we
   are presenting a webinar on the critical role of cultural landscapes in
   responding to climate change and the support of community resilience.
   Read more
   CHS co-publishes "The Future of Our Pasts" ICOMOS climate change report

CHS co-publishes "The Future of Our Pasts" ICOMOS climate change report

   Director Elizabeth Brabec was a contributing author to the report
   ICOMOS delivered to the 43rd Session of the World Heritage Committee in
   Baku, Azerbaijan, June 3, 2019.
   Read more
   ICOMOS Scientific Symposium, October 17, 2019, Marrakesh, Morocco

ICOMOS Scientific Symposium, October 17, 2019, Marrakesh, Morocco

   The Center co-sponsored the 2019 ICOMOS Scientific Symposium on Rural
   Heritage held in conjunction with the Annual General Meeting of the
   International Council on Monuments and Sites
   Read more
   UNFCCC Executive Committee Meeting, Casablanca, Morocco, July 27-29,
   2016

UNFCCC Executive Committee Meeting, Casablanca, Morocco, July 27-29, 2016

   Read more
   Reporting on Current Cultural Landscapes Research

Reporting on Current Cultural Landscapes Research

   Read more
   7th Annual Conference "Nature  Culture: Heritage in Context" May
   16-18, 2016

7th Annual Conference "Nature  Culture: Heritage in Context" May 16-18, 2016

   Read more
   "The Role of Heritage during Migration and Displacement"

"The Role of Heritage during Migration and Displacement"

   Symposium and Workshop at the University of Massachusetts Amherst April
   30th through May 2nd, 2017
   Read more
   Nature-Culture and World Heritage: Journeys to Connecting Practice

Nature-Culture and World Heritage: Journeys to Connecting Practice

   Nature Culture Journey at the IUCN World Conservation Congress
   September 1-10, 2016, Hawai'i
   Read more

News

Cultural Heritage as a Human Right

   Cultural Heritage as a Human Right

   Adam Markham, Deputy Director of Climate and Energy at the Union of
   Concerned Scientists, argues that climate change is fast eroding this
   human right: the right to “participate in the cultural life of the
   community, to enjoy the arts, and

   Center for Heritage  Society December 8, 2023 Heritage Climate Change,
   News, Worldwide Read more

CHS Director Elizabeth Brabec to speak at ARU’s Sustainable Futures
Conference, Cambridge, UK

   CHS Director Elizabeth Brabec to speak at ARU’s Sustainable Futures
   Conference, Cambridge, UK

   Elizabeth Brabec will join a group of 14 academics and agency leaders
   at Anglia Ruskin University in Cambridge, UK, on June 21st and 22, to
   discuss “Resilience to Extreme Events.” The conference will cover the
   range of issues from cultural

   Center for Heritage  Society June 12, 2023 News, Research, United
   Kingdom, Worldwide Read more

   Tweets by @@UMassCHS

Recent Posts

CHS Director Elizabeth Brabec to speak at ARU’s Sustainable Futures
Conference, Cambridge, UK

   CHS Director Elizabeth Brabec to speak at ARU’s Sustainable Futures
   Conference, Cambridge, UK

   Elizabeth Brabec will join a group of 14 academics and agency leaders
   at Anglia Ruskin University in Cambridge, UK, on June 21st and 22, to
   discuss “Resilience to Extreme Events.” The conference will cover the
   range of issues from cultural

   Center for Heritage  Society June 12, 2023 News, Research, United
   Kingdom, Worldwide Read more

Law, Landscape and Culture: Why America doesn’t love the black currant

   Law, Landscape and Culture: Why America doesn’t love the black currant

   Why is the black currant so popular in Europe and almost non-existent
   in North America? A recent blog post from the US Law Library of
   Congress discusses the link between cultural taste preferences and the
   local ecosystem, the importance of

   Center for Heritage  Society October 31, 2022 Europe, News, North
   America, Research, USA, Worldwide Read more

Pastoralism

   Pastoralism

   Pastoralism is a “fundamental subsistence pattern that dates back over
   10,000 years to the global warming that ended the Pleistocene Epoch”
   (Little 2015, 337). The map below shows the development of pastoralism
   as an agricultural system around the world, expanding to

   Center for Heritage  Society January 25, 2021 News, Research,
   Resources, Uncategorized, Worldwide Read more

Climate Change and Cultural Heritage in Scotland

   Climate Change and Cultural Heritage in Scotland

   A Twitter thread of resources on climate change, focused on Scotland
   but applicable worldwide (click on the image below to get the whole
   thread in Twitter). By David Harkin, Historic Environment Scotland.

   Center for Heritage  Society July 16, 2020 Europe, Research,
   Resources, Scotland, United Kingdom, Worldwide Read more

Garten Ordnung, 1597, Johannes Peschel

   Garten Ordnung, 1597, Johannes Peschel

   darinnen ordentliche Warhaftige Beschreibung, wie man aus rechtem grund
   der Geometria einen nützlichen und zierlichen Garten … anrichten sol,
   etc.

   Center for Heritage  Society May 21, 2020 Europe, Germany, Research,
   Resources Read more

Online Resources for Historic Maps

   Online Resources for Historic Maps

   Center for Heritage  Society April 3, 2020 Research, Resources,
   Worldwide Read more

Projects

   Affiliations: World Universities Network (WUN) Understanding Cultures
   Steering Group UMass Amherst Representative As a consortium of 23
   research universities from around the globe, the WUN brings partners
   together to tackle critical research issues in a transdisciplinary and
   international forum.  The
   Read more

Conferences

   List of Conferences Please click on year to link to more information:
   2023:  Cultural Landscapes’ Critical Role in Responding to Climate
   Change 2019:  Rural Heritage: Landscapes and Beyond 2018:  Culture,
   Migration and Adaptation in a Rapidly Changing World 2017:  The
   Read more

Cultural Landscapes Initiative

   Cultural landscapes are the “home,” the space and the place in which we
   live.  They reflect the people and the cultures who create them in
   their interaction with the natural world around them.  They also
   reflect the layers of the
   Read more

   Center for Heritage  Society
   210 Design Building, University of Massachusetts Amherst MA, 01003

   information.chs@umass.edu</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-55">
<text>   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WSX5PBP

   If you're seeing this message, it means we're having trouble loading
   external resources on our website.

   If you're behind a web filter, please make sure that the domains
   *.kastatic.org and *.kasandbox.org are unblocked.

   To log in and use all the features of Khan Academy, please enable
   JavaScript in your browser.
   (BUTTON) Courses
   Search
   Get AI GuideDonateLog inSign up
   Search for courses, skills, and videos
   (BUTTON)
   Main content

Special topics in art history

   (BUTTON)

Course: Special topics in art history  Unit 1

   Lesson 1: A beginner's guide
   (BUTTON)
     * ARCHES
     * What is Cultural Heritage?
     * Cultural heritage “in Crisis”
     * Blow it up: cultural heritage and film
     * ARCHES advisors

   Arts and humanities
   Special topics in art history
   ARCHES (At Risk Cultural Heritage Education Series)
   A beginner's guide
   © 2024 Khan Academy
   Terms of usePrivacy PolicyCookie Notice
   (BUTTON)

Cultural heritage “in Crisis”

   Google Classroom
   By Dr. Stephennie Mulder and Dr. Debora Trein
   Shell bursting on the cathedral at Reims, from Collier's New
   Photographic History of the World's War, 1918
   Shell bursting on the cathedral at Reims, from Collier's New
   Photographic History of the World's War, 1918

Have you seen the phrase “Culture in Crisis"?

   In recent years, particularly since the rise of ISIS’ destructive
   activities in the Middle East, it’s become common to see articles in
   the news media as well as in academic journals on the theme of
   “cultural heritage in crisis.” You could say it’s a booming field.
   But how true is it?
   It’s certainly true that cultural heritage is in danger of destruction,
   looting, or illicit trafficking in many places around the world. It’s
   also true that new types of threats to cultural heritage have developed
   in the last few decades.
   They include,
     * the easier movement of goods across national borders via online
       marketplaces like eBay
     * the spread of global banking
     * the outbreak of war and other forms of political instability and
       poverty
     * the widespread availability of heavy machinery and explosives

   Some regions—most recently the heritage-rich areas of the Middle
   East—have certainly experienced a marked increase in illicit
   trafficking in the context of ongoing political upheavals and
   conflicts.
   But usage of the term “crisis” to describe the destruction of cultural
   heritage around the world is perhaps a misleading one. “Crisis” is a
   term that indicates a problem that has an urgent, yet temporary
   quality. However, the loss and destruction of cultural heritage is not
   new in human history and is not restricted by the duration of political
   instability in faraway lands. Many regions of the world, including the
   United States, face a longstanding and ongoing struggle to protect
   heritage in the face of numerous challenges, regardless of political,
   social, or economic security. It may be worth considering that the idea
   of “crisis” deceptively frames the destruction of heritage as a product
   of temporary instabilities that cease to be a problem once conflicts
   are over. In reality, conditions of “crisis” only really provide new
   opportunities for heritage destruction processes that were already
   happening and will continue happening after the “crisis” is over.

Threats to cultural heritage: war

   Let’s take a closer look at these processes. Broadly speaking, there
   are two types of threats:
     * destruction of heritage sites and objects caused by war, poverty,
       and development initiatives
     * the looting and trafficking of objects that frequently arises out
       of those contexts

   In wartime, destruction of heritage sites can be a result of collateral
   damage, for example, when a bomb targeting one location inadvertently
   hits another; or it can be the result of intentional damage, aimed to
   demoralize and insult the values and religious and cultural symbols of
   an enemy. It is often difficult to distinguish between collateral and
   intentional damage, and perpetrators may claim deliberate destruction
   was an accident in an attempt to avoid prosecution. In the Syria
   conflict, for example, you’ve probably heard about the destruction
   caused by ISIS. However, the majority of damage to cities and to
   heritage has in fact not been caused by ISIS, but by the Syrian
   government’s campaign of relentless aerial bombardment, which has
   destroyed up to 70% of the fabric of the ancient city of Aleppo, a
   UNESCO World Heritage site.
   Walter Hahn, Dresden: view of the destroyed inner city from the town
   hall tower with sculpture, 1945 (CC BY-SA 3.0 DE)
   Walter Hahn, Dresden: view of the destroyed inner city from the town
   hall tower with sculpture, 1945 (CC BY-SA 3.0 DE)
   And though it’s easy to demonize a regime in a country far away, it’s
   important to remember that similar levels of destruction were caused by
   both the Axis powers and the Allies in World War II — for the Allies,
   most famously in Dresden, where a British and American aerial campaign
   in 1945 left more than 70% of the city in ruins. The neglect of the
   occupying U.S. forces in Iraq in 2003 famously led to the looting of
   the National Museum of Iraq, with thousands of objects lost, only half
   of which have returned, as well as the burning and destruction of
   Iraq’s magnificent national library, including hundreds of priceless
   manuscripts dating back to the 16th century. Deliberate or neglectful
   destruction of heritage has long been a key strategy of war, and
   perpetrators are rarely prosecuted for it.
   The long history of the destruction of heritage shows us that the
   elimination of culture has always been viewed as a powerful tool of
   domination and as a key strategy for eliminating the value humans
   accord to their lives. In recent years, the destruction of heritage —
   whether through war, commercial exploitation, and/or looting — has been
   defined by UNESCO as a form of cultural cleansing. In taking human
   lives, oppressors erase the existence of individual people: but in
   destroying culture, the memory and identity of entire peoples are
   erased. It is not surprising to note, therefore, that the destruction
   of heritage is often a precursor to genocide. This is because in
   denying people their past, perpetrators also deny them a future.

Threats to cultural heritage: development, climate change, tourism, and
natural disasters

   Nevertheless, wartime destruction of heritage is only a small fraction
   of the overall loss of cultural heritage around the world. Much more
   significant and long-lasting is destruction due to urban development,
   mineral and resource extraction, climate change, tourism, and even
   natural disasters. For example, the ancient Buddhist site of Mes Aynak
   in Afghanistan is now threatened by Chinese mining interests, a
   situation made famous in a recent documentary. Similarly, the push to
   expand resource extraction on public lands in the United States is also
   causing widespread loss of heritage, as at the Bears Ears National
   Monument, which was controversially reduced by 85% in a decision signed
   by President Trump in December 2017.
   Crowds in Venice (photo: Gary Bembridge, CC BY 2.0)
   Crowds in Venice (photo: Gary Bembridge, CC BY 2.0)
   Although many heritage sites are preserved in order to encourage
   tourist revenue, tourism can also cause massive destruction because of
   the large numbers of people it can attract and also because
   transforming a site into a tourist-friendly locale often profoundly
   transforms its meaning for local people, who may find their connections
   to a place have been erased. Such is the case at Dubrovnik, a city that
   was reconstructed by an international consortium of donors after the
   Balkan war and which now finds itself managing a Game of
   Thrones-inspired tourist influx that threatens to leave little of the
   original city behind, a destruction that some residents have
   characterized as worse than that during wartime.

Looting

   If destruction of heritage during wartime is akin to a relatively
   sudden death, looting is like a cancer that slowly erodes it. Looting
   is the theft of heritage items for sale on the antiquities market, most
   often to wealthy private buyers in the United States and Europe. As art
   history professor Nathan Elkins has shown, the consequences of
   purchasing even small items like coins can be devastating for our
   knowledge about the past. Once an object is removed from its original
   environment, it instantly loses much of its ability to convey
   information about how people once lived.
   Pedestal with feet fragments, Prasat Chen, Koh Ker, photo: © Simon
   Warrack, by permission, all rights reserved
   Pedestal with feet fragments, Prasat Chen, Koh Ker, photo: © Simon
   Warrack, by permission, all rights reserved
   Archaeologists call the environment in which an object is found, its
   context. Context is the object and its relationship to all the other
   objects and material in an archaeological site. The relationships
   between these objects is what enables archaeologists to recreate the
   past (objects that have been looted, and thereby robbed of this context
   can be called “ungrounded“). As such, even the smallest objects, such
   as ancient coins, can provide powerful evidence about the lives of
   people in the past. While locals are often blamed for looting, it is
   important to point out that local looting is often subsistence looting
   — looting carried out to supplement meagre incomes — and that it is
   only profitable because it responds to demand in wealthy countries. The
   antiquities market is vast, and as the Wall Street Journal reported
   last year, it has consequences far beyond just loss of our knowledge
   about the past, since much like drug trafficking, its profits fuel
   terrorism, criminal enterprises, and many other forms of criminal
   activity.

What can be done?

   In repositioning the discussion of the “current crisis” to a discussion
   of how we are in fact currently experiencing the latest iteration of a
   long-standing problem with global reach, we can avoid simplistic
   solutions that propose that squashing the “bad guys” — for example,
   ISIS — will solve the destruction and looting problem once and for all.
   Most importantly, it allows us to focus on the real driver of
   destruction: the demand in wealthy countries for heritage objects — a
   demand that ultimately fuels the entire antiquities trade — and the lax
   legislation that enables that trade to flourish. It also permits a
   conversation about related issues, for example the lack of public
   education about the antiquities trade, or problematic distinctions such
   as that between art — largely considered to be a private commodity
   subject to market demand, versus heritage — which is typically framed
   as “universal” and the patrimony of all.
   Understanding that cultural heritage has been under threat for a very
   long time allows us to avoid short-term, crisis-based responses, and
   enables us to craft long-lasting, systemic solutions.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Additional resources
   Zainab Bahrani, “Desecrating history,” The Guardian, April 9, 2008.
   K. Kris Hirst, “Context is Everything – What Does Context Mean to
   Archaeologists?,” ThoughtCo., March 8, 2017.
   Georgi Kantchev, “Buyer Beware: Looted Antiquities Flood Online Sites
   Like Amazon, Facebook,” The Wall Street Journal, November 1, 2017.
   Trinidad Rico, "Heritage at Risk: The Authority and Autonomy of a
   Dominant Preservation Framework," in Heritage Keywords: Rhetoric and
   Redescription in Cultural Heritage, Kathryn Lafrenz Samuels and
   Trinidad Rico, editors, Boulder, University of Colorado Press, 2015,
   pages 147–162.
   (BUTTON) Questions (BUTTON) Tips  Thanks

Want to join the conversation?

   Log in
   Sort by:
   (BUTTON) Top Voted
     * blobby green style avatar for user Marius Lennox
       Marius Lennox
       6 years ago
       Posted 6 years ago. Direct link to Marius Lennox's post “Not really
       a question but...”
       (BUTTON)
       more
       Not really a question but rather a compliment
       ..."in destroying culture, the memory and identity of entire
       peoples are erased. It is not surprising to note, therefore, that
       the destruction of heritage is often a precursor to genocide. This
       is because in denying people their past, perpetrators also deny
       them a future"
       Very well said!
       (BUTTON) AnswerButton navigates to signup page• (BUTTON) 1
       commentComment on Marius Lennox's post “Not really a question
       but...”
       (39 votes)
          + (BUTTON)
            Upvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Downvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Flag
            Button navigates to signup page
       (BUTTON)
       more
       Answer
       Default Khan Academy avatar avatar for user
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       (BUTTON) Show preview (BUTTON) Show formatting options
       (BUTTON) Post answer
     * aqualine tree style avatar for user Ana Hillary
       Ana Hillary
       6 years ago
       Posted 6 years ago. Direct link to Ana Hillary's post “Would the
       outbreak of war...”
       (BUTTON)
       more
       Would the outbreak of war be a new type of threat, per se? War has
       been around from Adam, and it has always involved destruction of
       history, has it not?
       If I have in any way misunderstood, please let me know.
       Thanks- Rose
       (BUTTON) AnswerButton navigates to signup page• (BUTTON) 3
       commentsComment on Ana Hillary's post “Would the outbreak of
       war...”
       (11 votes)
          + (BUTTON)
            Upvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Downvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Flag
            Button navigates to signup page
       (BUTTON)
       more
       Answer
       Default Khan Academy avatar avatar for user
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       (BUTTON) Show preview (BUTTON) Show formatting options
       (BUTTON) Post answer
          + aqualine tree style avatar for user David Alexander
            David Alexander
            6 years ago
            Posted 6 years ago. Direct link to David Alexander's post “War
            has certainly always ...”
            Good Answer
            (BUTTON)
            more
            War has certainly always been a threat. But wars fought with
            bows and arrows are less destructive of artifacts and cultures
            than wars fought with high explosive devices and thermonuclear
            devices.
            (BUTTON) 1 commentComment on David Alexander's post “War has
            certainly always ...”
            (17 votes)
               o (BUTTON)
                 Upvote
                 Button navigates to signup page
               o (BUTTON)
                 Downvote
                 Button navigates to signup page
               o (BUTTON)
                 Flag
                 Button navigates to signup page
            (BUTTON)
            more
     * starky seed style avatar for user Marianna Wysmułek
       Marianna Wysmułek
       5 years ago
       Posted 5 years ago. Direct link to Marianna Wysmułek's post “Not a
       question, but somet...”
       (BUTTON)
       more
       Not a question, but something to add. Poland's capital, Warsaw, was
       totally destroyed during the World War II. It could be rebuilt only
       thanks to Academy of Fine Arts' students who was sketching city
       before the war.
       (BUTTON) AnswerButton navigates to signup page• (BUTTON) 1
       commentComment on Marianna Wysmułek's post “Not a question, but
       somet...”
       (12 votes)
          + (BUTTON)
            Upvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Downvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Flag
            Button navigates to signup page
       (BUTTON)
       more
       Answer
       Default Khan Academy avatar avatar for user
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       (BUTTON) Show preview (BUTTON) Show formatting options
       (BUTTON) Post answer
          + aqualine tree style avatar for user David Alexander
            David Alexander
            5 years ago
            Posted 5 years ago. Direct link to David Alexander's post
            “Here's a superb podcast a...”
            (BUTTON)
            more
            Here's a superb podcast about that process. Well worth a
            listen:
            https://99percentinvisible.org/episode/episode-72-new-old-town
            /
            (BUTTON) CommentButton navigates to signup page
            (8 votes)
               o (BUTTON)
                 Upvote
                 Button navigates to signup page
               o (BUTTON)
                 Downvote
                 Button navigates to signup page
               o (BUTTON)
                 Flag
                 Button navigates to signup page
            (BUTTON)
            more
     * aqualine ultimate style avatar for user LJMRoche
       LJMRoche
       5 years ago
       Posted 5 years ago. Direct link to LJMRoche's post “This article
       makes good p...”
       (BUTTON)
       more
       This article makes good points and is well said, though it seems to
       repeat itself, like when talking about looting being a problem. Was
       it purposely written that way, perhaps to make sure the reader
       understands?
       (BUTTON) AnswerButton navigates to signup page• (BUTTON) 5
       commentsComment on LJMRoche's post “This article makes good p...”
       (6 votes)
          + (BUTTON)
            Upvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Downvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Flag
            Button navigates to signup page
       (BUTTON)
       more
       Answer
       Default Khan Academy avatar avatar for user
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       (BUTTON) Show preview (BUTTON) Show formatting options
       (BUTTON) Post answer
          + aqualine tree style avatar for user David Alexander
            David Alexander
            5 years ago
            Posted 5 years ago. Direct link to David Alexander's post “I
            agree that it repeats i...”
            (BUTTON)
            more
            I agree that it repeats itself. I've no idea whether that was
            purposeful. Maybe it was just poor writing. My suggestion was
            that you, who identified it a poor writing, take a chance on
            improving it, and then seeing if that improvement might not be
            recognized by the guy in charge of the course.
            (BUTTON) CommentButton navigates to signup page
            (6 votes)
               o (BUTTON)
                 Upvote
                 Button navigates to signup page
               o (BUTTON)
                 Downvote
                 Button navigates to signup page
               o (BUTTON)
                 Flag
                 Button navigates to signup page
            (BUTTON)
            more
     * blobby green style avatar for user CharleneHoeppner
       CharleneHoeppner
       4 years ago
       Posted 4 years ago. Direct link to CharleneHoeppner's post “how
       many articles are the...”
       (BUTTON)
       more
       how many articles are there
       (BUTTON) AnswerButton navigates to signup page• (BUTTON)
       CommentButton navigates to signup page
       (4 votes)
          + (BUTTON)
            Upvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Downvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Flag
            Button navigates to signup page
       (BUTTON)
       more
       Answer
       Default Khan Academy avatar avatar for user
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       (BUTTON) Show preview (BUTTON) Show formatting options
       (BUTTON) Post answer
          + blobby green style avatar for user drszucker
            drszucker
            4 years ago
            Posted 4 years ago. Direct link to drszucker's post “There are
            about 2,000 art...”
            (BUTTON)
            more
            From the author:There are about 2,000 art history essays on
            Khan Academy
            (BUTTON) CommentButton navigates to signup page
            (6 votes)
               o (BUTTON)
                 Upvote
                 Button navigates to signup page
               o (BUTTON)
                 Downvote
                 Button navigates to signup page
               o (BUTTON)
                 Flag
                 Button navigates to signup page
            (BUTTON)
            more
     * leaf green style avatar for user Monica Adams
       Monica Adams
       5 years ago
       Posted 5 years ago. Direct link to Monica Adams's post “Hi.the
       statement regardin...”
       (BUTTON)
       more
       Hi.the statement regarding destroying the culture, memory and
       identity of entire peoples is so true and in a society like we have
       in South Africa, is one of the dividing factors in our society. We
       have university students who take a statue down in front of a
       university because he symbolizes white supremacy. I am talking
       about the 'Rhodes' memorial , a lifesize statue of Cecil John
       Rhodes, who most certainly was not a saint but he had dreams for
       southern Africa that have in part still to be built. He was
       involved in the Gold and diamond trade, which no doubt exploited
       the labour force, but it did bring a prosperity to the land. He was
       the founder of the university of Cape town to which the students in
       question were hopefully being educated. The names of Towns and
       cities, not to mention the roads are all being changed by the
       incumbent government that just causes dismay as the people to which
       the names are being changed have no place in a democratic country.
       so, the destruction of heritage is certainly causing a psycological
       genocide where one fears any discussion.
       (BUTTON) AnswerButton navigates to signup page• (BUTTON)
       CommentButton navigates to signup page
       (6 votes)
          + (BUTTON)
            Upvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Downvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Flag
            Button navigates to signup page
       (BUTTON)
       more
       Answer
       Default Khan Academy avatar avatar for user
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       (BUTTON) Show preview (BUTTON) Show formatting options
       (BUTTON) Post answer
     * winston baby style avatar for user Element12_95
       Element12_95
       6 years ago
       Posted 6 years ago. Direct link to Element12_95's post “Does that
       mean that is li...”
       (BUTTON)
       more
       Does that mean that is like a war for keeping art and sculptures
       safe and secure?
       Just curious,
       Thanks!
       (BUTTON) AnswerButton navigates to signup page• (BUTTON) 1
       commentComment on Element12_95's post “Does that mean that is
       li...”
       (5 votes)
          + (BUTTON)
            Upvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Downvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Flag
            Button navigates to signup page
       (BUTTON)
       more
       Answer
       Default Khan Academy avatar avatar for user
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       (BUTTON) Show preview (BUTTON) Show formatting options
       (BUTTON) Post answer
     * starky seedling style avatar for user Arya Wright
       Arya Wright
       5 years ago
       Posted 5 years ago. Direct link to Arya Wright's post “At 11:21,
       but in this que...”
       (BUTTON)
       more
       At
       11:21
       , but in this quest to save cultural heritage, aren't we fighting a
       losing battle? As long as people, who are the basis of everything,
       won't recognize the value of heritage either cultural or of any
       other kind, there would be no point trying to save it.
       Even during all sorts of conflicts, everyday, every hour we lose
       something valuable. I recognize the importance in trying to save
       it, but what about the situations beyond our control? For example,
       we can't force the govt. of America to cease it's military
       operations. We can't compromise with international security to stop
       this destruction at any cost. What can we do about that?
       (BUTTON) AnswerButton navigates to signup page• (BUTTON)
       CommentButton navigates to signup page
       (5 votes)
          + (BUTTON)
            Upvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Downvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Flag
            Button navigates to signup page
       (BUTTON)
       more
       Answer
       Default Khan Academy avatar avatar for user
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       (BUTTON) Show preview (BUTTON) Show formatting options
       (BUTTON) Post answer
     * aqualine ultimate style avatar for user hikaru hijame
       hikaru hijame
       5 years ago
       Posted 5 years ago. Direct link to hikaru hijame's post “wat it
       takes for our comm...”
       (BUTTON)
       more
       wat it takes for our community?
       (BUTTON) AnswerButton navigates to signup page• (BUTTON)
       CommentButton navigates to signup page
       (4 votes)
          + (BUTTON)
            Upvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Downvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Flag
            Button navigates to signup page
       (BUTTON)
       more
       Answer
       Default Khan Academy avatar avatar for user
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       (BUTTON) Show preview (BUTTON) Show formatting options
       (BUTTON) Post answer
     * aqualine sapling style avatar for user Taya
       Taya
       a year ago
       Posted a year ago. Direct link to Taya's post “What is ISIS? Some
       sort o...”
       (BUTTON)
       more
       What is ISIS? Some sort of organization? The article didn't explain
       who they were or what it was?
       Also, does this "Art History" Course only talk about the looting
       and breakage of artifacts?
       (BUTTON) AnswerButton navigates to signup page• (BUTTON)
       CommentButton navigates to signup page
       (2 votes)
          + (BUTTON)
            Upvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Downvote
            Button navigates to signup page
          + (BUTTON)
            Flag
            Button navigates to signup page
       (BUTTON)
       more
       Answer
       Default Khan Academy avatar avatar for user
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________
       (BUTTON) Show preview (BUTTON) Show formatting options
       (BUTTON) Post answer
          + aqualine tree style avatar for user David Alexander
            David Alexander
            a year ago
            Posted a year ago. Direct link to David Alexander's post “ISIS
            is a convenient acro...”
            (BUTTON)
            more
            ISIS is a convenient acronym for "Islamic State in Syria". The
            same movement was elsewhere known as ISIL and, internally, as
            Daish. It is mentioned here because it was a "current thing"
            when the lesson was made a few years ago.
            Because artifacts are often artistic expressions, discussion
            of them is right and proper in a course on Art History.
            You are at the entry point of this course. Why not skip ahead
            to the more chronological parts of the course (there are 16
            different topics), or to one of the particular areas or eras
            that might interest you more. When you finish those, you might
            also return to Special Topics or ARCHES, because the
            instruction is valuable all the way through.
            (BUTTON) 1 commentComment on David Alexander's post “ISIS is a
            convenient acro...”
            (3 votes)
               o (BUTTON)
                 Upvote
                 Button navigates to signup page
               o (BUTTON)
                 Downvote
                 Button navigates to signup page
               o (BUTTON)
                 Flag
                 Button navigates to signup page
            (BUTTON)
            more

   (BUTTON) Loading...</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-56">
<text>   #Heritage » Feed Heritage » Comments Feed Heritage » iCal Feed
   alternate alternate alternate alternate

   [tr?id=326876831512175ev=PageViewnoscript=1] Heritage RSS2 Feed

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WZPVLDM6

   (269) 382-1255    |DonateCareers (BUTTON) AAA
   Heritage Heritage

     * Life at Heritage
          + Independent Living
               o Ridge Creek
               o The Artisan
               o Inner Circle
               o Floorplans
          + Lifestyle
          + Dining
          + Health and Wellbeing
          + Campus Map
          + Neighborhood
          + Gallery
               o Photos
               o Videos
     * Health Services
          + Assisted Living
               o Meilland Square
               o Hawthorn Landing
          + Memory Care
               o Meilland Square
               o Hawthorn Landing
          + Memory Care Learning Center
               o Events
               o Resources
          + Skilled Nursing Care
               o Rehabilitation Center
          + Home Care
          + What is a Life Plan Community?
     * Pricing
          + What’s Right for Me?
          + Entrance Fees Explained
     * Home
     * Giving
          + Our Foundation
          + Programs  Projects
          + Ways to Give
          + Special Events
     * About Us
          + Leadership
          + Volunteer
          + Safety Commitment
          + FAQs
          + Testimonials
     * News  Events
          + News  Blogs
          + Events
     * CONTACT
     * Careers
     * Donate
     * Menu Menu

The Spirit
of Renewal
Lives Here

   Schedule a tour

The Spirit
of Renewal
Lives Here

   Schedule a tour

That’s the Future of Our Heritage.

   Since 1945, Heritage Community of Kalamazoo has encouraged and nurtured
   the passions of every individual who has ever called our community home
   or visited as a guest. Throughout the decades, the city of Kalamazoo
   has grown from a collection of city streets to one of West Michigan’s
   most vibrant and historic neighborhoods. And all along the way, the
   deep roots of Heritage Community have grown to great heights.
   MORE

   Just beyond and around our campus, surprising delights are waiting to
   be discovered, from the best of arts and entertainment to unique
   boutiques, from picturesque park trails to the perks of downtown
   dining. This forward-facing energy has been a catalyst for change, not
   just in the city of Kalamazoo, but throughout our community. Here, the
   future of independent senior living meets the leading edge of health
   and wellness. Our newly renovated campus offers five modern and
   traditional concept dining venues, contemporary design, ongoing
   cultural events and social opportunities, and the stability of lifelong
   healthcare.

Experience

   Life At Heritage

Learn

   About our Health Services

Learn

   About our levels of care
   lobby lobby

Discover

   More about our heritage

Get the Latest on
Heritage Community

   Link to: Top Four Lifestyle Offerings of Senior Living

   Top Four Lifestyle Offerings of Senior Living
   Link to: The Importance of Self-Care in Senior Living

   The Importance of Self-Care in Senior Living

Discover Downtown
Kalamazoo

   Just beyond and around our campus, surprising delights are waiting to
   be discovered, from the best of arts and entertainment to unique
   boutiques, from picturesque park trails to the perks of downtown
   dining.
   The Neighborhood

Inquire

   First Name(Required)
   ____________________
   Last Name(Required)
   ____________________
   *Email(Required)
   ____________________
   Phone
   ____________________
   Interest(Required)
   [I am interested in...______]
   Interest(Required)
   [How did you hear about us?]

   Keep me updated

   [ ] Keep me updated

   CAPTCHA
   Email
   ____________________
   This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
   Submit

   Δ
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________

   IFRAME: gform_ajax_frame_11

   IFRAME: about:blank

   IFRAME:
   https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m18!1m12!1m3!1d2952.592856582313
   7!2d-85.57232638448518!3d42.265866449037354!2m3!1f0!2f0!3f0!3m2!1i1024!
   2i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x88179d44733ae551%3A0x33941549c9b60a72!2sHerita
   ge%20Community%20of%20Kalamazoo!5e0!3m2!1sen!2sus!4v1629313330273!5m2!1
   sen!2sus

   Start the conversation: (269) 343-1161 | 2300 Portage Street,
   Kalamazoo, MI 49001

   Business Hours: Available 24/7 | Health Services | Pricing | Giving |
   About Us | News  Events | Donate | Careers | Contact

   Connect With Us

   © 2023 Heritage Community of Kalamazoo. All Rights Reserved.
   Privacy Policy

   Scroll to top

   (BUTTON) Accessibility Accessibility
   (BUTTON) Close
   Font Resize
   (BUTTON) A- (BUTTON) A+
   (BUTTON) Clear cookies
   (BUTTON) Close
   Accessibility by WAH

DOWNLOAD OUR FREE KIT

   Fill out the form below to download our free information kit

   First Name(Required)
   ____________________
   Last Name(Required)
   ____________________
   Email(Required)
   ____________________
   *Phone(Required)
   ____________________
   CAPTCHA
   Submit

   Δ
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________

   IFRAME: gform_ajax_frame_6

   (BUTTON) CLOSE

Download our helpful QA

   Fill out the form below to download our free information kit

   First Name(Required)
   ____________________
   Last Name(Required)
   ____________________
   Email(Required)
   ____________________
   *Phone(Required)
   ____________________
   CAPTCHA
   Submit

   Δ
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________

   IFRAME: gform_ajax_frame_7

   (BUTTON) CLOSE

TAKE AN EXCLUSIVE LOOK AT OUR FEATURED FLOOR PLANS

   Fill out the form below to unlock our exclusive view.

   First Name(Required)
   ____________________
   Last Name(Required)
   ____________________
   Email(Required)
   ____________________
   Phone
   ____________________
   CAPTCHA
   Submit

   Δ
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________

   IFRAME: gform_ajax_frame_5

   (BUTTON) CLOSE</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-57">
<text>   #Heritage University » Feed Heritage University » Comments Feed
   Heritage University » iCal Feed alternate alternate alternate alternate
   Heritage University RSS2 Feed

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-K6STDHJ

   Heritage University

     * Admissions
          + Freshman Admissions
          + Transfer Students
          + Graduate Admissions
          + Financial Aid
          + Scholarships
     * Academic Paths
          + Undergraduate Majors  Degrees
          + Graduate Degrees
          + Non Degree and Certificate Programs
          + Special Programs
     * Student Life
          + Student Resources
          + Library
          + The Eagle’s Cafe
          + Student Government
          + Student Organizations
     * Our Community
          + Center for Indigenous Health, Culture and the Environment
          + DACA
          + The Ross Institute for Student Success
          + Workforce Training and Education
     * Locations
          + Toppenish Main Campus
          + Tri-Cities Regional Site
          + Heritage at Columbia Basin College
     * More   More
          +
               o What Do You Want To Study?
                 ____________________ ____________________ Start search
                 (BUTTON)

                 Generic selectors

                 [X]
                 Exact matches only
                 [ ]
                 Search in title
                 [ ]
                 Search in content
                 [ ]

                 Post Type Selectors

                 [X]


               o MyHeritage
               o HU Catalog
               o Financial Aid
               o Faculty  Staff
               o The Eagle’s Cafe
               o About HU
               o Alumni
               o Events
               o News  Updates
               o Employment Opportunities
     * Search
     * Menu Menu

     * Home
     * About HU
     * Academic Paths
     * Admissions
     * Alumni
     * Contact Us
     * Faculty  Staff
     * Financial Aid
     * Giving
     * Locations
     * MyHeritage
     * News
     * Our Community
     * Student Life
     * Student Resources

     * COVID-19
     * VISIT
     * APPLY
     * CONTACT
     * GIVE

Undergraduate Majors  Degrees

   University Home             Academic Paths             Undergraduate
   Majors  Degrees
   Menu
     * Undergraduate Majors  Degrees
          + Business Administration
          + Computer Science
          + Criminal Justice
          + Early Childhood Studies
          + Education
          + English
          + Health Care Administration
          + History
          + Mathematics
          + Medical Laboratory Science
          + Pre-Engineering
          + Psychology
          + Sciences
          + Social Work
          + Visual Arts
     * Graduate Degrees
          + Master in Counseling
          + Master in Inclusive Education
          + Master in Educational Administration
          + Master’s of English
          + Master in Teaching
     * Hybrid Degrees
     * Online Degrees
     * College Prep Programs
          + Math Placement Assessment
          + Introductory Composition
          + HU KickStart
               o Math Bridge Program
     * Non Degree and Certificate Programs
     * Special Programs
          + Enactus
          + High School Equivalency Program
          + HU NSF REU
          + Leadership Alliance
          + LSAC Prelaw Undergraduate Scholars (PLUS) Program
          + McNair Scholars Program
          + Mellon Mays Undergraduate Fellowship (MMUF)
     * STEM
          + Planning for STEM
          + Career Info
          + Scholarships
          + Resources
     * Online Course Exchange

Academic Paths

     * Undergraduate Majors  Degrees
     * Graduate Degrees
     * Hybrid Degrees
     * Online Degrees
     * College Prep Programs
     * Non Degree and Certificate Programs
     * Special Programs
     * STEM
     * Online Course Exchange

Start Unstoppable You

   Heritage University invites you on a journey to academic and
   professional success! We offer a wide variety of different
   undergraduate degrees:

   American Indian Studies teachers and student

American Indian Studies

   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/banner-082-min.jpg
   200 960 Heritage University
   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/HU3-Logo-White.png
   Heritage University2018-05-11 07:23:512023-04-06 15:09:33American
   Indian Studies

   American Cultural Studies teacher and student

American Cultural Studies

   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/banner-081-min.jpg
   200 960 Heritage University
   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/HU3-Logo-White.png
   Heritage University2018-05-11 07:12:482023-04-06 15:10:28American
   Cultural Studies

   Two female students outside of Violet Lumley Rau Center at heritage
   university

Accounting

   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/banner-005-min.jpg
   200 960 Heritage University
   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/HU3-Logo-White.png
   Heritage University2018-05-11 03:24:452023-12-07 09:09:41Accounting

   Biology students with professor

Biology

   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/banner-085-min.jpg
   200 960 Heritage University
   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/HU3-Logo-White.png
   Heritage University2017-12-30 07:48:092023-12-06 17:26:34Biology

   Enactus Team cheering on stage

Business Administration

   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/banner-016-min.jpg
   200 960 Heritage University
   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/HU3-Logo-White.png
   Heritage University2017-12-30 01:06:442023-12-06 17:32:40Business
   Administration

   Female student concentrated, reading computer screen

Computer Science

   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/banner-057-min.jpg
   200 960 Heritage University
   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/HU3-Logo-White.png
   Heritage University2017-12-29 08:12:392023-12-07 09:04:41Computer
   Science

   Students smiling laughing dancing as a group

Criminal Justice

   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/banner-011-min.jpg
   200 960 Heritage University
   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/HU3-Logo-White.png
   Heritage University2017-12-28 08:18:342023-12-07 09:12:49Criminal
   Justice

   Two female students pointing at computer screen during class

Early Childhood Studies

   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/banner-058-min.jpg
   200 960 Heritage University
   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/HU3-Logo-White.png
   Heritage University2017-12-27 18:24:242023-04-06 15:18:43Early
   Childhood Studies

   Graduates looking happy during Heritage University commencement

Education

   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/249A4892-scaled-sca
   led-scaled-scaled-scaled-e1699980604904.jpg?ver=1699897561 533 2560
   Heritage University
   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/HU3-Logo-White.png
   Heritage University2017-12-27 08:51:162023-12-07 09:17:03Education

   Student presenting in class with microphone in hand

English

   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/banner-009-min.jpg
   200 960 Heritage University
   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/HU3-Logo-White.png
   Heritage University2017-12-26 18:18:302023-04-06 15:21:10English

   Environmental science students working outside

Environmental Studies

   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/banner-084-min.jpg
   200 960 Heritage University
   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/HU3-Logo-White.png
   Heritage University2017-12-25 07:40:542023-12-07 09:21:13Environmental
   Studies

   Student writing

History

   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/banner-029-min.jpg
   200 960 Heritage University
   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/HU3-Logo-White.png
   Heritage University2017-12-24 19:57:092023-12-07 09:23:00History

   Students writing on white board in front of class

Mathematics

   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/banner-066-min.jpg
   200 960 Heritage University
   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/HU3-Logo-White.png
   Heritage University2017-12-23 20:06:112023-12-08 08:10:04Mathematics

   chemistry student looking at vile during class

Medical Laboratory Science

   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/banner-043-min.jpg
   200 960 Heritage University
   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/HU3-Logo-White.png
   Heritage University2017-12-22 07:05:432023-12-07 09:58:25Medical
   Laboratory Science

   Medical lab students talking

Nursing

   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/banner-076-min.jpg
   200 960 Heritage University
   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/HU3-Logo-White.png
   Heritage University2017-12-22 06:35:192023-01-30 16:58:33Nursing

   Two students looking over Heritage University student planner

Pre-Engineering

   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/banner-060-min.jpg
   200 960 Heritage University
   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/HU3-Logo-White.png
   Heritage University2017-12-21 20:31:122023-04-06
   15:43:23Pre-Engineering

   Students smiling laughing dancing as a group

Psychology

   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/banner-010-min.jpg
   200 960 Heritage University
   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/HU3-Logo-White.png
   Heritage University2017-12-20 20:37:042023-09-21 09:17:41Psychology

   Medical science lab students working hands on next to professor

Sciences

   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/banner-064-min.jpg
   200 960 Heritage University
   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/HU3-Logo-White.png
   Heritage University2017-12-19 20:47:132023-09-21 09:17:25Sciences

Social Sciences

   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2019/03/AccountingGuildBann
   er.jpg 200 960 Erin Smith
   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/HU3-Logo-White.png
   Erin Smith2017-12-19 09:36:362023-12-07 10:14:46Social Sciences

   Professor reviewing course work with student

Social Work

   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/banner-024-min.jpg
   200 960 Heritage University
   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/HU3-Logo-White.png
   Heritage University2017-12-18 21:20:352023-12-07 10:17:10Social Work

   Students cleaning brushes in art class at heritage university

Visual Arts

   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/banner-031-min.jpg
   200 960 Heritage University
   https://www.heritage.edu/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/HU3-Logo-White.png
   Heritage University2017-12-01 21:34:342023-12-07 10:37:27Visual Arts

CAMPUS LOCATIONS

   Main Campus
   3240 Fort Road
   Toppenish, WA 98948

   Heritage at Columbia Basin College
   2600 N 20th Ave, MS: HU
   Pasco, WA 99301

   Tri-Cities Regional Site
   333 W Canal Dr
   Kennewick, WA 99336

LEGAL

   Terms of Use
   Privacy Statement
   Sitemap
   Report A Web Issue
   Clery Act Information
   University Policies

SAFETY  SECURITY

   Overview
   Emergency Action Plan
   Campus Security
   Parking Information
   Services
   Contact Us
   COVID-19 Update

QUICKLINKS

   Apply
   Schedule A Visit
   Library
   MyHeritage
   News
   Financial Aid
   HU Catalog
   Academic Skills Center
   The Eagle’s Cafe
   Course Schedule
   Registrar and Transcripts
   Employment Opportunities

   © 2024 Heritage University

   Scroll to top

We invite you to invest in Heritage University!

   Your gift makes a difference and transforms the lives of our students,
   their families and our communities. Questions? Please contact us at
   advancement@heritage.edu or (509) 865-8587.
     __________________________________________________________________

   (BUTTON) ×</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-58">
<text>   #resilience » Feed resilience » Comments Feed resilience » Loss and
   damage: How can culture and heritage loss be measured and addressed?
   Comments Feed alternate alternate alternate

   Skip to content

   resilience

   Insight and inspiration in turbulent times.

   resilience
   [resilience-logo-text-only.png]
   Donate Subscribe [icon-search.svg]
   Resilience is a program of the nonprofit organization Post Carbon
   Institute.

   resilience
   Subscribe
   (BUTTON) Menu
   [icon-search.svg]
   [icon-facebook.svg] [icon-twitter.svg] [icon-youtube.svg]
   [icon-instagram.svg]
     * Topics
          + All Latest Articles
          + Energy
          + Economy
          + Environment
          + Food  Water
          + Society
          + Featured Topics
     * Take Part
          + Get Started
          + Online Course
          + Events
     * Podcasts
          + Holding the Fire
          + What Could Possibly Go Right?
          + Crazy Town
          + Power
     * About
          + About Resilience
          + Fundamentals
          + Submission Guidelines
          + Commenting Guidelines
          + Contact

   resilience
   Donate Subscribe [icon-search.svg] [icon-menu.svg]
   [icon-menu-close.svg]
   (BUTTON) Menu
     * Latest
     * Energy
     * Economy
     * Environment
     * Food  Water
     * Society
     * More ▼

     * Topics
          + All Latest Articles
          + Energy
          + Economy
          + Environment
          + Food  Water
          + Society
          + Featured Topics
     * Take Part
          + Get Started
          + Online Course
          + Events
     * Podcasts
          + Holding the Fire
          + What Could Possibly Go Right?
          + Crazy Town
          + Power
     * About
          + About Resilience
          + Fundamentals
          + Submission Guidelines
          + Commenting Guidelines
          + Contact

Environment featured

Loss and damage: How can culture and heritage loss be measured and addressed?

   By Daisy Dunne, originally published by Carbon Brief

   April 10, 2023
   coastal erosion

   A group of archaeologists, climate scientists and policy experts met at
   the University of East Anglia last week to discuss how unique cultures
   and heritage are fast disappearing because of climate change – and what
   can be done to properly measure and address this.

   From the erosion of the Norfolk seaside to the inundation of ancestral
   desert land in Mauritania, climate change is already having a serious
   and often irreversible impact on people’s cultures and heritage.

   Such impacts are one aspect of “loss and damage” – a term used to
   describe the consequences of climate change that can no longer be
   avoided, which tend to be heaped on vulnerable communities.

   After the historic agreement on a fund for loss and damage at the COP27
   climate summit in 2022, researchers met to discuss how to ensure
   the loss of cultures and heritage can be included in high-level climate
   discussions.

   Carbon Brief was at the event to listen to the talks and discussion and
   has summarised the key takeaways.

What is cultural and heritage loss and damage?

   “Loss and damage” is a term used to describe how climate change is
   already causing serious and, in many cases, irreversible impacts around
   the world – particularly in vulnerable communities. At UN climate
   talks, the term is often used by groups arguing for big historic
   emitters to be held responsible for losses incurred in poorer regions,
   which are the least responsible for climate change.

   Loss and damage can be caused by immediate climate impacts, such
   as more intense and frequent extreme weather events, as well as impacts
   that gradually worsen over time, such as sea level rise, enhanced
   coastal erosion and the retreat of glaciers.

   According to the most recent assessment of climate impacts from
   the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), loss and damage
   can broadly be split into two categories: economic losses involving
   “income and physical assets”; and non-economic losses, which include –
   but are not limited to – “mortality, mobility and mental wellbeing
   losses”.

   The loss of cultures and heritage is one aspect of non-economic loss
   and damage. Explaining the meaning of heritage, Prof Joanne Clarke, an
   archaeologist specialising in climate change impacts at UEA who
   organised the conference, told delegates:

     “Heritage is all the inherited conditions, objects, places and
     culture, as well as contemporary activities, knowledge, meanings and
     behaviours that are drawn from them. Literally, heritage is
     everything that we are and everything that we want to become. So it
     is crucial for the preservation of society and social wellbeing. And
     it is increasingly thought to offer recognition to underrepresented
     populations.”

   At the conference, speakers detailed how climate change is already
   affecting culture and heritage across the world, including in Ghana,
   Mauritania, Vietnam, Bangladesh and the UK.

   Prof Kwasi Appeaning Addo, director of the Institute for Environment
   and Sanitation Studies (IESS) at the University of Ghana, explained how
   climate change is already affecting sites of cultural significance in
   coastal Ghana, including historic slave forts. He told the conference:

     “Erosion, sea level rise and flooding are a major threat to heritage
     sites – and a major threat to vulnerable communities within our
     coastal regions.”

     Really thrilled to be at @uniofeastanglia for a @BritishAcademy_
     conference on heritage loss and damage from climate change 🌊🌴

     Kicking off by hearing from @Appeaning_Addo on how sea level rise,
     coastal erosion and flooding is swallowing heritage sites in Ghana
     pic.twitter.com/wSWZgZg5a0

     — Daisy Dunne (@daisydunnesci) March 30, 2023

   To illustrate the scale of coastal erosion in Ghana, he showed
   delegates images of a coastline in 2008 and 2021 (shown in the tweet
   above). He told delegates:

     “In 2008, I drove on this road. In 2021 I went back and the road was
     gone.”

   Dr Salma Sabour, a postdoctoral researcher of heritage loss from
   climate change at the University of Southampton, explained her work
   examining climate impacts in Banc d’Arguin National Park, Mauritania.

   As well as being one of the most important fish nurseries in West
   Africa and a significant breeding site in the “East Atlantic Flyway”
   for migratory birds, the coastal desert site is also the ancestral home
   of the Imraguen people, she explained.

   This Indigenous community is highly adapted to life in the coastal
   desert and carries out many traditional fishing practices, including
   blowing on seashells to attract dolphins, who bring fish with them.

   However, sea level rise is already threatening the Imraguen’s unique
   way of life, causing their villages to become inundated with seawater
   for months at a time. She told the conference:

     “Imagine seeing your village becoming an island for three to six
     months of the year.”

   Dr Sophie Day, a senior researcher at the UEA’s Tyndall Centre on
   secondment to North Norfolk District Council, spoke about her work
   examining cultural and heritage loss from climate change along the
   Norfolk coast in the UK.

   One place particularly affected by coastal erosion in Norfolk is the
   seaside village of Hemsby.

   The village has lost about 70 metres of coastline in the last 50 years,
   with damage from storm surges and high tides increasing over time. In
   March 2018, the village was struck by a powerful storm dubbed the
   “Beast from the East”, which caused seven homes to fall into the sea.

   Day told the conference she asked residents of Norfolk’s rapidly
   eroding seaside villages to explain what the loss of heritage from
   climate change means to them. In response, residents raised fears about
   losing a sense of place, sites for recreation, archaeology sites,
   churches and graveyards, and natural habitats, among other things, she
   said.

How can the loss of cultures and heritage from climate change be measured?

   One of the major themes of the conference was to discuss ways that
   powerful stories of heritage loss from climate change can be properly
   measured and tracked to give an idea of impacts at national,
   continental and global scales.

   Doing this will be crucial to get policymakers to take the issue of
   heritage loss seriously, said Clarke.

   She told the conference about a study she was involved in that – for
   the first time – comprehensively assessed how sea level rise could
   threaten world heritage sites dotted across coastal Africa.

   The research – which Carbon Brief covered in depth – revealed that the
   number of world heritage sites at risk from sea level rise in Africa
   could triple by 2050, compared to today. Sites at risk include sacred
   waterfalls, second-century trading posts and biodiversity hotspots.

   Previous research by a similar group of scientists also mapped out the
   risks facing world heritage sites in the Mediterranean, ranging from
   the iconic ancient cities of Venice and Naples to caves containing
   Neandertal artwork in Gibraltar.

   Further work is underway to quantify and explain risks facing world
   heritage sites across the world, Clarke told Carbon Brief.

   Speaking from the audience, Nusrat Naushin, coordinator of the loss and
   damage programme at the International Centre for Climate Change and
   Development in Bangladesh, questioned whether such an approach could be
   expanded to include sites of cultural importance that are not
   classified as world heritage sites.

   As an example, she told the conference about a tree in Bangladesh that
   was considered sacred to those following the Hindu faith. The tree was
   washed away in a flash flood, she told the audience, with no authority
   or actor being held accountable for this cultural loss.

   Another important way to measure and track heritage loss from warming
   is through IPCC reports – the most authoritative source of information
   on climate change, said Clarke.

   As noted above, the IPCC’s most recent climate impacts assessment does
   discuss non-economic loss and damage, but does not explicitly mention
   heritage as an example.

   Clarke told the conference that more must be done to include heritage
   in IPCC reports:

     “The [most recent IPCC climate impacts assessment] does not evenly
     or comprehensively incorporate heritage into its discussions around
     loss and damage, even though heritage is fundamental to all seven of
     its central chapters: terrestrial and freshwater ecosystems; oceans
     and coastal ecosystems; water; food and fibre; cities and
     settlements; health and wellbeing; economics, poverty and
     livelihoods.”

   In a discussion, Sabour noted that, out of the regional chapters of the
   IPCC climate impacts assessment, the chapter on Africa was the only one
   to prominently discuss the impact of climate change on heritage.

   This likely reflected the personal interests of one of chapter’s lead
   authors, Dr Nick Simpson, a postdoctoral research fellow at the African
   Climate and Development Initiative at the University of Cape Town, who
   contributed to the research on world heritage sites in Africa at risk
   from sea level rise, several speakers noted. They added that more could
   be done to ensure heritage is more prominently featured in the next
   assessment cycle.

How can the loss of cultures and heritage be accounted for at UN climate
talks?

   As well as discussing how to get heritage into IPCC reports, the
   delegates also noted the importance of ensuring it features in the
   burgeoning loss and damage movement making waves at UN climate talks.

   COP27 in Egypt saw countries reach a landmark deal on a loss and damage
   fund following a 30-year struggle largely led by small island states
   and developing countries.

   Speaking to Carbon Brief in 2022, Sandeep Chamling Rai, a senior
   advisor at WWF and an expert on the UN climate change non-economic loss
   and damage taskforce, said that the loss of cultural heritage has so
   far been neglected at UN climate talks, with most looking at loss and
   damage from a “monetary point of view”.

   At the conference, Dr Hannah Fluck, an archaeologist working on climate
   change and heritage who co-chairs the Climate Heritage Network, said
   the organisation was looking for volunteers to help get heritage spoken
   about in negotiation rooms at COP28 later this year.

   Elsewhere at the conference, Dr Nick Brooks, a climate scientist and
   director of Garama 3C, a small consultancy firm for climate change and
   development, suggested that countries should be encouraged to include
   risks to heritage within their international climate pledges submitted
   to the UN (known as “nationally determined contributions” or NDCs).

     Countries could include the heritage sites and cultural aspects at
     risk from climate change in their national climate plans (NDCs) as a
     first step to quantifying global-scale risks, says Dr Nick Brooks
     @uniofeastanglia

     Could also help include heritage in loss and damage funding
     pic.twitter.com/BUze696o6v

     — Daisy Dunne (@daisydunnesci) March 30, 2023

   Doing this could be a first step towards quantifying global heritage
   risks in a UN context, he added.


   Teaser photo credit: CC BY-SA 2.0,
   https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=594080
     *
     *
     *

Daisy Dunne

   Daisy holds a BSc in biology from the University of Bristol and a
   science journalism MA from City, University of London. She previously
   worked at MailOnline covering science and technology.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Tags: cultural heritage, culture, environmental effect of climate
   change, loss and damage

Related Articles

On the Ecological Tyranny of Tech and Repairing Our ‘Just Tech’ Age

   By Peter C. Little, Mother Pelican

   What can be said about globalized tech when our earthly existence is
   consumed by viral uncertainties, urgent climatic shifts, and perpetual
   socio-environmental precarity and violence?
     __________________________________________________________________

   January 4, 2024
   solar panels

How Low-Income Families Can Reap Rewards From Solar Energy

   By Eduardo Garcia, The Revelator

   For families who can’t pay high upfront costs for solar energy,
   cooperatives offer a solution.
     __________________________________________________________________

   January 4, 2024
   President Trump discusses COVID impact with airline industry

An Environmental Activist’s Guide to The Great Barrington Declaration

   By Phil Wilson, Resilience.org

   Did COVID teach us anything? Well yes – the movement to overthrow the
   fossil fuel empire will require action, passion, numbers and narrative
   force that we have yet to imagine.
     __________________________________________________________________

   January 4, 2024

   Resilience is a program of Post Carbon Institute, a nonprofit
   organization dedicated to helping the world transition away from fossil
   fuels and build sustainable, resilient communities.

   Reposting Policy | Privacy Policy

     * About us
     * Contact
     * Donate
     * Subscribe
     * RSS

     *
     *
     *

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-NTRWV3J</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-59">
<text>   [tr?id=889870088554345ev=PageViewnoscript=1]

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-PFDJN3H

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-K5KT8D9

   (BUTTON) Toggle navigation logo
     * Corporate
          + Heritage at a Glance
          + Vision  Mission
          + Corporate Management Team
          + Functional Heads
          + Our Commitments
          + Awards  Recognitions
          + CSR Activities
               o CSR Activities for the Financial Year 2023-24
          + GSTN Numbers
     * Business Verticals
          + Dairy
               o Dairy Home
               o Exports
               o Heritage Parlour
               o Heritage Distribution Centre
               o Locations
               o Excellence in Quality
          + Renewable Energy
     * Products
          + Milk
          + UHT Milk
          + Curd
          + Frozen Desserts
          + Lassi
          + Ice-Creams
          + Buttermilk
          + Milkshake
          + Paneer
          + Sweets
          + Ghee
          + Butter
          + Cheese
          + Fresh Cream
          + Cold Coffee
          + Flavoured Milk
          + Whey Drink
          + Skimmed Milk Powder
          + [bf-milk.jpg]
            Buffalo Milk
          + [tonemilk.jpg]
            Toned Milk
          + [fullcream-milk.jpg]
            Full Cream Milk
          + [standardized-milk.jpg]
            Standardized Milk
          + [dbtoned-milk.jpg]
            Double Toned Milk
          + [cowmilk.jpg]
            Cow Milk
          + [slim-milk.jpg]
            Slim Milk
          + [a2fullcreammilk.jpg]
            A2 Full Cream Milk
          + [uhtmilk.jpg]
            UHT Milk
          + [totalcurd.jpg]
            Total Curd
          + [probioticcurd.jpg]
            Probiotic Curd
          + [creamilicious.png]
            Creamilicious Curd
          + [cones.jpg]
            Cones
          + [cups.jpg]
            Cups
          + [juicy_bars.jpg]
            Juicy Bars
          + [familypack.jpg]
            Family Packs
          + [sweet-lassi.png]
            Sweet Lassi
          + [mango-lassi.png]
            Mango Lassi
          + [straberry.png]
            Strawberry Lassi
          + [subjalassi.jpg]
            Sabja Lassi
          + [tubs.jpg]
            Tubs
          + [icbars.jpg]
            Bars
          + [kulfi.jpg]
            Kulfi
          + [buttermilk.jpg]
            Spiced Buttermilk
          + [plain-buttermilk.png]
            Plain Buttermilk
          + [milkshake-vanilla.jpg]
            Vanilla
          + [milkshake-chocolate.jpg]
            Chocolate  Caramel
          + [chok.jpg]
            Chocolate
          + [biscuit.jpg]
            Cookies Cream
          + [milkshake-strawberry.jpg]
            Strawberry
          + [paneer-fresh.jpg]
            Fresh Paneer
          + [paneer.jpg]
            Lite Paneer
          + [doodhpedas.jpg]
            Doodh Peda
          + [milkcake.jpg]
            Milk Cake
          + [gulab-jamun1.png]
            Gulab Jamun
          + [rasagulla1.png]
            Rasagulla
          + [cow-ghee1.jpg]
            Cow Ghee
          + [buffalo-ghee1.jpg]
            Buffalo Ghee
          + [special-ghee.jpg]
            Hi Aroma Ghee
          + [table-butter.jpg]
            Table Butter
          + [cooking-butter.jpg]
            Cooking Butter
          + [processedcheese.jpg]
            Processed Cheese
          + [mozzarellacheese.jpg]
            Mozzarella Cheese
          + [processedcheeseslice.jpg]
            Processed Cheese Slice
          + [processedcheesespread.jpg]
            Processed Cheese Spread
          + [freshcream.jpg]
            Fresh Cream
          + [coldcoffee.jpg]
            Cold Coffee
          + [Cafe-Latte.jpg]
            Cafe Latte
          + [Cafe_Mocha_1.jpg]
            Cafe Mocha
          + [fmilk-pbadam.jpg]
            Badam Charger
          + [fmilk-badam.jpg]
            Badam
          + [fmilk-pista.jpg]
            Pista
          + [fmilk-chocolate.jpg]
            Chocolate
          + [fmilk-elachi.jpg]
            Elachi
          + [fmilk-pineapple.jpg]
            Pineapple
          + [fmilk-strawberry.jpg]
            Strawberry
          + [fmilk-vanilla.jpg]
            Vanilla
          + [gluco-shakti.png]
            Gluco Shakti Orange
          + [gluco-shakti-lemon.png]
            Gluco Shakti Lemon
          + [gluco-shakti-pineapple.png]
            Gluco Shakti Pineapple
          + [smpowder.jpg]
            Milk Powder
     * Products
          + Milk
               o Buffalo Milk
               o A2 Full Cream Milk
               o Toned milk
               o Double Toned Milk
               o Full cream milk
               o Standardized Milk
               o Cow milk
               o Slim Milk
          + UHT Milk
          + Curd
               o Total Curd
               o Premium Curd
               o Probiotic Curd
               o class=""Creamilicious Curd
          + Buttermilk
          + Lassi
               o Sweet Lassi
               o Mango Lassi
               o Strawberry Lassi
               o Subja Lassi
          + Icecreams
               o Tubs
               o Bars
               o Kulfi
          + Frozen Desserts
               o Cones
               o Cups
               o Juicy Bars
               o Family Packs
          + Milkshake
               o Vanilla
               o Chocolate
               o Strawberry
          + Paneer
               o Fresh Paneer
               o Lite Paneer
          + Sweets
               o Doodh Peda
               o Milk Cake
          + Ghee
               o Cow Ghee
               o Buffalo Ghee
               o Hi Aroma Ghee
          + Butter
               o Cooking Butter
               o Table Butter
          + Cheese
               o Processed Cheese
               o Mozzarella Cheese
               o Processed Cheese Slice
               o Processed Cheese Spread
          + Fresh Cream
          + Cold Coffee
          + Flavoured Milk
               o Badam Charger
               o Badam
               o Pista
               o Chocolate
               o Elachi
          + Skimmed Milk Powder
     * Subsidiary/JV
          + Subsidiary
               o Heritage Nutrivet Limited
          + JV
               o Heritage Novandie Foods Pvt Ltd
     * Investors
          + Listing Information
          + Board of Directors
               o Brief Profile of Directors
               o Board Committees
               o Independent Director
                    # Code for Independent Director
               o Familiarization Programme
          + Financial
               o Annual Report
                    # Annual Report
                    # Annual Report 2022-23 flip book
                    # Subsidiary / Associate / JV Annual Reports
               o Financial Report
                    # Quarterly Financial Results
                    # Shareholder/ Investor Presentation
          + Statutory Information
               o Meetings
                    # Annual General Meetings
                    # EGM / Postal Ballot
                    # Notice of Board Meetings
               o Stock Exchange
                    # Notice for Closure of Trading Window
                    # Outcome of Board Meeting
                    # Stock Exchange Clarifications
                    # Concall
                    # Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit Report
                    # Investor Grievances Report
                    # BRSR
                    # RTA Certificate 74(5)
                    # Yearly Disclosures
                    # Regulation 40(9  10)
                    # Regulation 7(3)
                    # Communication to Shareholders
                    # Related Party Transaction
               o MOA  AOA
               o Management Discussion  Analysis
               o Research Reports
               o Rights Issue
               o Scheme of Arrangement
               o Annual Disclosure Formats
               o Annual Return
          + Policies
          + Corporate Governance
               o Shareholding Pattern
               o Corporate Governance Reports
               o RTA  Compliance Officer
               o Newspaper Publications
               o Familiarization Program
               o Secretarial Reports
                    # Secretarial Audit Report
                    # Annual Secretarial Compliance Report
          + Dividend/ IEPF
               o Dividend/Unclaimed Dividend
                    # Dividend History
                    # Unclaimed Dividend
                    # Unclaimed Dividend from FY 2014-15 to 2022-23 (1st
                      Int Div)
                    # Unclaimed Dividend Register
               o IEPF
                    # Shares Transfer to IEPFA
               o Nodal Officer
          + Investor Contacts
               o Investor Grievance
               o Designated Official
               o KMP Details
          + Credit Rating
          + Investor Service Request
     * News  Events
     * Gallery
     * Contact Us
     *
     *

   Heritage Foods was founded to create and share wealth ethically among
   the farming community in a structured manner
   The farming community was fragmented with no guidance and voice
   I am proud we have achieved our objective with our vision and mission
   for economic growth
   I promise as trustees our moral compass will remain to true north
   always
   Smt. Bhuvaneswari Nara
   Vice Chairperson  Managing Director

I BELIEVE

   Smt. Bhuvaneswari Nara

Buy Now

   buy on amazon
     * buy on bigbasket

   Important: We have moved to H.No.8-2-293/82/A/1286, Plot No: 1286, Road
   No. 1  65, Jubilee Hills, Hyderabad- 500033, Telangana, India w.e.f
   1-12-2022

   CAUTION: Heritage Foods Limited. Since it’s incorporation (i.e.
   05/06/1992) is not accepting any type of deposits from the public, if
   anybody is asking any type of deposits in the name of Heritage Foods
   Limited. Don't believe such false assurance.

Give your family

The Goodness of Ghee

   Make your cooking ultra-delicious
   and provide a golden treat to your taste buds
   Explore More
   [ghee-icon-1.png]

   Great
   for taste
   [ghee-icon-2.png]

   Rich in
   Vitamins A  E
   [ghee-icon-3.png]

   Promotes
   Better Digestion
   [ghee-icon-4.png]

   Improves
   Immunity

   [paneer-lite.png]
   Lite Paneer
   Explore
   [paneer-fresh.png]
   Fresh Paneer
   Explore

Milk

Toned Milk

   Fresh  pure milk is procured from our farmers and processed,
   pasteurized, homogenized and packed at state-of-the-art processing
   plants with utmost care to ensure goodness.
   Explore More
     * [mlk-icon-1.png]

3.0%
       [snf-blue.png]

8.5%
     * [milk-1.png]
     * [mlk-icon-5.png]

Vitamin A  D
       [storage-icon.png]

48hrs at 4^ C

Milk

Full cream milk

   Full Cream Milk is rich in fat, so it is suitable for those with a low
   BMI.What’s more, it is at its purest and best because it is processed
   at our state-of-the-art processing plants.
   Explore More
     * [fat-ora.png]

6.0%
       [snf-do.png]

9.0%
     * [milk-2.png]
     * [storage-icon-do.png]

48hrs at 4^ C

Milk

Cow Milk

   Golden Cow Milk is the culmination of a series of step such as
   procurement, processing, pasteurization, homogenization and packaging
   at state-of-the-art processing plants with utmost care to ensure
   goodness.
   Explore More
     * [fat-gold.png]

3.5%
       [snf-gold.png]

8.5%
     * [milk-3.png]
     * [deg-gold.png]

48hrs at 4^ C

Our goodness

   Comes in many types!

   UHT Milk
   View All

   Curd
   View All

   A-one Butter Milk
   View All

   Lassi
   View All

   Flavoured Milk
   View All

   Paneer
   View All

   Butter
   View All

   Sweets
   View All

   [probiotic.jpg]
   Heritage Total Curd | #MakesYourDay (తెలుగు) #HeritageFoods

   View All

A Heritage of

Happiness

   Goodness comes in many milky ways.

15,00,000

   Families Consume
   Heritage Products Daily

859

   Heritage Parlours Operated
   by Our Franchisees

3,00,000

   Farmers Supply Fresh,
   Pure Milk Twice a Day

1,25,000

   Retail Outlets Sell Heritage
   Products From Their Stores

187

   Bulk Coolers, Mini Chilling
    Chilling Centres
   Procure Milk Daily

Heritage Foods limited

   The Heritage Foods Limited was founded by Mr. Nara Chandrababu Naidu in
   the year 1992, which is one of the fastest growing Public Listed
   Companies in India, with two business divisions - Dairy and Renewable
   Energy. The annual turnover of Heritage Foods stood at INR 32,087
   million in the financial year 2022-23.
   View More

     * Follow us :
     * [fb.png]
     * [tw.png]
     * [lk.png]
     * [is.png]
     * [yt.png]

   Download Our App

   *Currently Available in Hyderabad

   Corporate
     * Heritage at a Glance
     * Corporate Management Team
     * Our Commitments
     * Awards  Recognitions
     * CSR Activities
     * GSTN Numbers
     * Caution Notice

   Products
     * Milk
     * UHT Milk
     * Curd
     * Buttermilk
     * Ice-Creams
     * Frozen Desserts
     * Lassi
     * Flavoured Milk
     * View All

   Investors
     * Listing Information
     * Investor Contacts
     * Quarterly Financials
     * Annual Reports
     * Research Reports
     * Policies

   Business verticals
     * Dairy
     * Renewable Energy

   Quick links
     * News  Events
     * Gallery
     * Blog
     * Careers
     * Contact Us

   Copyright © , Heritage Foods Limited. Designed by Pixel Studios</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-6">
<text>   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-MRVXSHQ

   Skip to main content

   Advertisement
   SpringerLink
   Log in
   Menu
   Find a journal Publish with us Track your research
   Search
   Cart
   Book cover

   Euro-Mediterranean Conference

   EuroMed 2018: Digital Heritage. Progress in Cultural Heritage:
   Documentation, Preservation, and Protection pp 616–622Cite as
    1. Home

     Digital Heritage. Progress in Cultural Heritage: Documentation,
   Preservation, and Protection

     Conference paper

The Role of Heritage Data Science in Digital Heritage

     * Alejandra Albuerne  ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0001-6444-9120^19,
     * Josep Grau-Bove^19 
     * Matija Strlic^19

     * Conference paper
     * First Online: 16 October 2018

     * 3362 Accesses
     * 1 Citations

   Part of the Lecture Notes in Computer Science book series (LNISA,volume
   11196)

Abstract

   The advance of all forms of digital and virtual heritage alongside
   numerous heritage science and management applications have led to the
   generation of growing amounts of heritage data. This data is
   increasingly rich, diverse and powerful. To get the most out of
   heritage data, there is an evident need to effectively understand,
   manage and exploit it in a way that is sensitive towards its context,
   responding to its singularities, and that can allow heritage to keep up
   with global changes regarding expansion of digital technologies and the
   increasing role of data in decision making and policy development.
   Through conversations with industry and academia, as well as through
   their personal research in the field of cultural heritage, the authors
   have identified a need for enhanced training for data scientists to
   prepare them for working in the heritage sector. This paper first
   proposes a definition of the term heritage data, so far missing from
   the literature, and then presents the academic rationale behind the
   identified need for targeted training in data science for cultural
   heritage.

Keywords

     * Heritage data
     * Data science
     * Cultural heritage

   This is a preview of subscription content, log in via an institution.

Buying options

   Chapter
          EUR   29.95
          Price includes VAT (France)

     * Available as PDF
     * Read on any device
     * Instant download
     * Own it forever

   (Submit) Buy Chapter

   eBook
          EUR   96.29
          Price includes VAT (France)

     * Available as EPUB and PDF
     * Read on any device
     * Instant download
     * Own it forever

   (Submit) Buy eBook

   Softcover Book
          EUR   126.59
          Price includes VAT (France)

     * Compact, lightweight edition
     * Dispatched in 3 to 5 business days
     * Free shipping worldwide - see info

   (Submit) Buy Softcover Book

   Tax calculation will be finalised at checkout

   Purchases are for personal use only
   Learn about institutional subscriptions

References

    1. Harrison, R., Morel, H., Maricevic, M., Penrose, S.: Heritage and
       Data: Challenges and Opportunities for the Heritage Sector
       Google Scholar
    2. Loukides, M.: What is Data Science? O’Reilly Media, Sebastopol
       (2011)
       Google Scholar
    3. Meyer, E., Grussenmeyer, P., Perrin, J.P., Durand, A., Drap, P.:
       Integration of heterogeneous cultural heritage data in a web-based
       information system: a case study from Vianden Castle, Luxembourg.
       In: CAA 2006 Proceedings (2006)
       Google Scholar
    4. Reilly, P., Rahtz, S. (eds.): Archaeology in the Information Age: A
       Global Perspective. One World Archaeology, vol. 21. Routledge,
       London (1992)
       Google Scholar
    5. Richards, J.D.: Recent trends in computer applications in
       archaeology. J. Archaeol. Res. 6(4), 331–382 (1998)
       Google Scholar
    6. Vincent, M.L., López-Menchero Bendicho, V.M., Ioannides, M., Levy,
       T.E. (eds.): Heritage and Archaeology in the Digital Age:
       Acquisition, Curation, and Dissemination of Spatial Cultural
       Heritage Data. QMHSS. Springer, Cham (2017).
       https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-65370-9
       CrossRef  Google Scholar
    7. Lercari, N., Shiferaw, E., Forte, M., Kopper, R.: Immersive
       visualization and curation of archaeological heritage data:
       Çatalhöyük and the Dig@IT App. J. Archaeol. Method Theory 25(2),
       368–392 (2017)
       CrossRef  Google Scholar
    8. http://www.heritagedata.org/blog/vocabularies-provided/
    9. Klic, L., Nelson, J.K., Pattuelli, M.C., Provo, A.: Florentine
       renaissance drawings: a linked catalog for the semantic web. Art
       Doc. J. Art Libr. Soc. North Am. 37(1), 33–43 (2018)
       Google Scholar
   10. UNESCO: Charter on the preservation of digital heritage (2003)
       Google Scholar

   Download references

Acknowledgements

   We are grateful to all interviewees and questionnaire respondents for
   their generous collaboration and to Yujia Luo for her help with
   Mendeley.

Author information

Authors and Affiliations

    1. Institute for Sustainable Heritage, University College London,
       London, UK
       Alejandra Albuerne, Josep Grau-Bove  Matija Strlic

   Authors
    1. Alejandra Albuerne
       View author publications
       You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar
    2. Josep Grau-Bove
       View author publications
       You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar
    3. Matija Strlic
       View author publications
       You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar

Corresponding author

   Correspondence to Alejandra Albuerne .

Editor information

Editors and Affiliations

    1. Cyprus University of Technology, Limassol, Cyprus
       Marinos Ioannides
    2. American Art Collaborative Linked Open Data Initiative, Arlington,
       VA, USA
       Eleanor Fink
    3. Politecnico di Milano, Milan, Italy
       Raffaella Brumana
    4. The Aristotle University, Thessaloniki, Greece
       Petros Patias
    5. National Technical University of Athens, Athens, Greece
       Anastasios Doulamis
    6. CTS-UNINOVA, Caparica, Portugal
       João Martins
    7. University of the Peloponnese, Tripoli, Greece
       Manolis Wallace

Rights and permissions

   Reprints and permissions

Copyright information

   © 2018 Springer Nature Switzerland AG

About this paper

   Check for updates. Verify currency and authenticity via CrossMark

Cite this paper

   Albuerne, A., Grau-Bove, J., Strlic, M. (2018). The Role of Heritage
   Data Science in Digital Heritage. In: Ioannides, M., et al. Digital
   Heritage. Progress in Cultural Heritage: Documentation, Preservation,
   and Protection. EuroMed 2018. Lecture Notes in Computer Science(), vol
   11196. Springer, Cham. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-01762-0_54

Download citation

     * .RIS
     * .ENW
     * .BIB

     * DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-01762-0_54
     * Published: 16 October 2018
     * Publisher Name: Springer, Cham
     * Print ISBN: 978-3-030-01761-3
     * Online ISBN: 978-3-030-01762-0
     * eBook Packages: Computer ScienceComputer Science (R0)

Share this paper

   Anyone you share the following link with will be able to read this
   content:
   (BUTTON) Get shareable link

   Sorry, a shareable link is not currently available for this article.

   (BUTTON) Copy to clipboard

   Provided by the Springer Nature SharedIt content-sharing initiative

Publish with us

   Policies and ethics

   Access via your institution

Buying options

   Chapter
          EUR   29.95
          Price includes VAT (France)

     * Available as PDF
     * Read on any device
     * Instant download
     * Own it forever

   (Submit) Buy Chapter

   eBook
          EUR   96.29
          Price includes VAT (France)

     * Available as EPUB and PDF
     * Read on any device
     * Instant download
     * Own it forever

   (Submit) Buy eBook

   Softcover Book
          EUR   126.59
          Price includes VAT (France)

     * Compact, lightweight edition
     * Dispatched in 3 to 5 business days
     * Free shipping worldwide - see info

   (Submit) Buy Softcover Book

   Tax calculation will be finalised at checkout

   Purchases are for personal use only
   Learn about institutional subscriptions

search

   Search by keyword or author
   ____________________ (BUTTON) Search

Navigation

     * Find a journal
     * Publish with us
     * Track your research

Discover content

     * Journals A-Z
     * Books A-Z

Publish with us

     * Publish your research
     * Open access publishing

Products and services

     * Our products
     * Librarians
     * Societies
     * Partners and advertisers

Our imprints

     * Springer
     * Nature Portfolio
     * BMC
     * Palgrave Macmillan
     * Apress

     * (BUTTON) Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
     * Your US state privacy rights
     * Accessibility statement
     * Terms and conditions
     * Privacy policy
     * Help and support

   91.164.203.135

   Not affiliated
   Springer Nature

   © 2024 Springer Nature</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-7">
<text>   Skip to main content Skip to main navigation
     * Giving
     * Corporate
     * Alumni
     * iSchool Connect

   University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign
   School of Information Sciences
   [ ] Menu
     * Visit
          + What is an iSchool?
          + Request Information
          + Upcoming Events
          + Tuition  Financial Support
          + Recruitment  Admissions Staff
          + iSchool Ambassadors
          + Student Videos
     * Degrees  Programs
          + Undergraduate
          + Graduate
          + Informatics Programs
          + Course Catalog
     * People
          + School Leadership
          + Faculty
          + Staff
          + Adjuncts  Affiliates
          + Emeriti Faculty
          + Doctoral Students
          + Committees
          + School Directory
     * Research
          + Areas
          + Projects
          + Vision
          + Services
          + Showcase
          + Research Fellows
          + Scholars-in-Residence
          + Postdoctoral Researchers
          + Videos
     * Engage
          + Corporate
          + Giving
          + Alumni
     * Student Life
          + Academic Support Center
          + Student Development Opportunities
          + Student Organizations
          + Convocation
          + Practicum  Career Courses
          + Career Support
          + Help Desk
     * News  Events
          + News Feed
          + Events Calendar
          + Publications
          + Upcoming Events
          + Lectures
          + Awards
     * Our School
          + 130th Anniversary
          + Strategic Plan
          + History
          + Data and Reporting
          + iSchool at a Glance
          + Building Facilities
          + Diversity  Inclusion
          + Job Openings
          + Contact Us

   [ ] Search
   ____________________
   (BUTTON)
   Research
   In This Section
     * Home
     * Research
     * Research Areas
     * Cultural Informatics and Heritage

Cultural Informatics and Heritage

   Understanding the role of information technology in preserving,
   transmitting, and shaping human culture and heritage

Researchers Working in this Area

     * Anita Say Chan
       Anita Say Chan
       Associate Professor
     * Emily Maemura
       Emily Maemura
       Assistant Professor
     * Stephen Downie
       J. Stephen Downie
       Professor, Associate Dean for Research, and Co-Director of the
       HathiTrust Research Center
     * Judith Pintar
       Judith Pintar
       Teaching Associate Professor
     * Kate Williams
       Kate Williams
       Associate Professor Emerita
     * Kathryn La Barre
       Kathryn La Barre
       Associate Professor
     * Lori Kendall
       Lori Kendall
       Associate Professor
     * Professor Michael Twidale
       Michael Twidale
       Professor and PhD Program Director
     * Ryan Cordell
       Ryan Cordell
       Associate Professor
     * Travis Wagner
       Travis L. Wagner
       Assistant Professor

Related Research Projects

Children, Comics, and Print Culture

   Time frame
          2015-2018

   Investigator
          Carol Tilley

   Total funding to date
          $19,036.00

   Funding agency
          University of Illinois Research Board

   This project expands Tilley’s investigation of comics from the
   perspective of readers, a much-neglected group in both contemporary and
   historical research. Comics readership among young people peaked in the
   mid-twentieth century with levels reaching near 100%, yet there has
   been little scholarly investigation of this phenomenon. Funding for
   this project will enable archival research trips and…

Donna Haraway is our "Friend": Reconfiguring Friendship Bracelets and
Bibliography

   Time frame
          2016-Present

   This project uses the friendship bracelet as a way to "re-weave" the
   academic canon. Friendship bracelets are handmade macramé bracelets of
   embroidery thread, intended to be worn as a sign of lasting friendship.
   In this collaboration with Julia Pollack (MS '12), bracelets have been
   woven with bibliographical references to important work of women in the
   field of knowledge-production.

   …

Implications of a Digital Revolution

   Total funding to date
          $14,000.00

   Funding agency
          Illinois Program for Research in the Humanities

   Notably absent in the current rush to digitize newspapers and books are
   critical investigations of the processes and products of this work.
   Such examinations are forestalled, Bonnie Mak argues, by a rhetoric of
   revolution that determines how the phenomenon should be constituted and
   studied, just as it continues to do for the so-called printing
   revolution of the fifteenth century. Her analysis…

Information's Allure

   Time frame
          2016-Present

   One of the enduring attractions of books is their ability to stand
   witness to their own presence through time and space. A history of
   social interaction is marked on the pages of a book; a folded corner, a
   stain from a careless reader's cup of coffee, and a thoughtful comment
   in the margin accrue and transmit something of where the book has been,
   with whom, and under what circumstances.…

Metadata Poems

   Time frame
          2017-Present

   Although standardized vocabularies and languages are often invoked as a
   way to ensure interoperability in the management of informational
   resources, these conventions prioritize particular ways of representing
   the world. This project situates metadata as an infrastructure of
   information, and examines how such descriptive practices have
   configured the production of knowledge for centuries—from…
   Metadata Poems project

Preserving Intangible Cultural Heritage

   Time frame
          2015-2017

   Investigators
          Lori Kendall, Maria Bonn

   Total funding to date
          $25,500.00

   Funding agency
          Andrew W. Mellon Foundation

   The past decade has seen tremendous progress in the field of
   preservation, particularly with respect to preservation of digital
   materials. To date, however, there has been only minimal research
   activity within North America on the preservation of intangible
   cultural heritage—such as language, cuisine, performing arts, and
   traditional craftsmanship—and its relationship to the preservation of…

Temporal Factors

   Time frame
          2012-2016

   Total funding to date
          $408,908.00

   Funding agency
          National Science Foundation

   Time affects information retrieval in many ways. Collections of
   documents change as new items are indexed. The content of documents
   themselves may change. Users submit queries at particular moments in
   time. And perhaps most importantly, people’s assessment of a document’s
   relevance to a query is often time-dependent. For example, searchers of
   news archives might seek information on a past…

Text Mining the Novel: Establishing the Foundations of a New Discipline

   Time frame
          2014-2020

   Investigators
          Ted Underwood, J. Stephen Downie

   Total funding to date
          $142,000.00

   Funding agency
          Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada

   This HathiTrust Research Center (HTRC) project seeks to produce the
   first large-scale cross-cultural study of the novel according to
   quantitative methods. Ever since its putative rise in the eighteenth
   century, the novel has emerged as a central means of expressing what it
   means to be modern. And yet despite this cultural significance, we
   still lack a comprehensive study of the novel’s place…

The Computer Music Project

   Time frame
          1984-Present

   Investigator
          Sever Tipei

   Funding agency
          National Endowment for the Arts, UIUC Campus Research Board,
          School of Music

   Founded in 1984, the Computer Music Project is a facility dedicated to
   computer music research and teaching. Through its existence, it has
   supported the development of new tools for composition, sound design,
   sound analysis, sonification, sound visualization and automatic
   notation along with the creation of new musical compositions. Software
   created at CMP benefits, in turn, classroom and…
   computer music at U of I

News Stories

Guo defends dissertation

   December 6 2023

   Doctoral candidate Qiuyan Guo successfully defended her dissertation,
   "Exploring Chinese Celebrity Fans’ Online Information Behaviors and
   Understandings of Their Practices," on December 6.
   Qiuyan Guo

iSchool researchers present at 4S 2023

   November 20 2023

   iSchool faculty, staff, and students presented their research at the
   Society for Social Studies of Science (4S) annual conference, which was
   held from November 8-11 in Honolulu, Hawaii. The society is an
   international, nonprofit association that fosters interdisciplinary
   scholarship in social studies of science, technology, and medicine.

Wagner to join iSchool faculty

   August 4 2023

   The iSchool is pleased to announce that Travis L. Wagner will join the
   faculty as an assistant professor in August 2023. They currently serve
   as a lecturer in the College of Information Studies at the University
   of Maryland.
   Travis Wagner

Gabriel to deliver keynote on building resilient collections

   April 11 2023

   PhD student Jamillah R. Gabriel will give the keynote address at the
   17th Annual Digital Commonwealth Conference, which will be held
   virtually on April 11. Digital Commonwealth provides resources and
   services to support the creation, management, and dissemination of
   cultural heritage materials held by libraries, museums, historical
   societies, archives, and other cultural institutions in Massachusetts.
   The theme of this year's conference is "Facing the Digital Future:
   Addressing Systemic Issues in Cultural Heritage."
   Jamillah Gabriel

Han to host workshop for youth to learn Chinese American history

   February 7 2023

   PhD student Yingying Han is helping youth learn about Chinese American
   history and take action to preserve their cultural heritage. Through a
   multi-session workshop, which will take place the next four Saturdays
   from 10:00-11:30 a.m. at the University YMCA in Champaign, Han hopes to
   teach children about the contributions of Chinese immigrants and
   Chinese Americans to the history of the United States.
   Yingying Han

Project to study anti-Black violence in newspapers receives support from
Mellon Foundation

   January 24 2023

   A project to examine the circulation of newspaper reports about
   anti-Black violence in nineteenth- and early twentieth-century U.S.
   newspapers could provide context to the spread of white supremacist
   ideologies in social media today.
   St. Louis newspaper from early 1900s

iSchool presents research at Digital Humanities 2022

   August 3 2022

   iSchool faculty, staff, and students presented their research at
   Digital Humanities 2022, the annual conference of the International
   Alliance of Digital Humanities Organizations. The theme of this year's
   conference, which was held online on July 25-29, was "Responding to
   Asian Diversity."

Guo receives dissertation fellowship

   July 6 2022

   Doctoral candidate Qiuyan Guo has received a 2022 Eugene Garfield
   Doctoral Dissertation Fellowship from Beta Phi Mu, the international
   library and information studies honor society. Beta Phi Mu awarded six
   fellowships, valued at $3,000 each, to doctoral students who are
   working on their dissertations in LIS, information studies,
   informatics, or a related field. Guo received the fellowship for her
   dissertation, "Exploring Chinese Celebrity Fans' Online Information
   Behaviors and Understandings of Their Fandom."
   Qiuyan Guo

New HRI Research Clusters include iSchool faculty

   June 1 2022

   Two projects led by iSchool faculty members have been selected as
   Humanities Research Institute (HRI) Research Clusters for 2022-2023.
   Formerly known as the Illinois Program for Research in the Humanities,
   HRI fosters interdisciplinary study in the humanities, arts, and social
   sciences at the University of Illinois. HRI Research Clusters enable
   faculty and graduate students to "develop questions or subjects of
   inquiry that require or would be enhanced by collaborative work."
   Projects selected as clusters receive grants of $2,500 to support their
   activities.

Kacunguzi defends dissertation

   April 5 2022

   Doctoral candidate Dianah T. Kacunguzi successfully defended her
   dissertation, "Knowledge Preservation Practices of Herbalists in
   Uganda: An Ethnographic Study," on March 31
   Dianah Kacunguzi

Cordell to deliver keynote on Viral Texts project

   October 14 2021

   Associate Professor Ryan Cordell will deliver the keynote address at
   the Marbach-Weimar-Wolfenbüttel (MWW) Research Association Mid-Term
   Conference, which will be held virtually from Germany on October 14-15.
   The goal of the MWW is "to provide future-oriented impulses for
   collaboration in the field of humanities and cultural studies
   research." The association's mid-term conference will focus on
   engagement with material and medial losses in the archive and library.
   Ryan Cordell

Han’s paper named a finalist for iConference award

   January 29 2021

   A paper coauthored by Ruohua Han, iSchool doctoral candidate, and
   Linqing Ma (Renmin University of China) has been named one of five
   finalists for the Best Short Research Paper Award at iConference 2021.
   The winner will be announced during the conference, which will take
   place online from March 17-31.
   Ruohua Han

New role for Pintar

   August 22 2019

   The iSchool is pleased to announce that Judith Pintar is now a teaching
   associate professor. In her new position, in addition to teaching core
   courses in the BS in information sciences (BS/IS) program, she will
   develop and teach courses related to game studies and interactive
   narrative design for both undergraduates and graduate students.
   Judith Pintar

Chan selected as a Data  Society Faculty Fellow

   July 3 2019

   Associate Professor Anita Say Chan has been selected as a 2019-2020
   Data  Society Faculty Fellow. Data  Society is a research institute
   focused on the social and cultural issues arising from automation and
   data-centric technology. Its programs draw together researchers and a
   broad network of practitioners to bring new perspectives and
   intellectual breadth to the institute's work.
   Anita Say Chan

Book chapter co-authored by Bettivia examines digital heritage

   June 5 2019

   Postdoctoral Research Associate Rhiannon Bettivia (PhD '16) is the
   co-author of a chapter in Politics of Scale: New Directions in Critical
   Heritage Studies, a newly published book edited by Tuuli Lähdesmäki,
   Suzie Thomas, and Yujie Zhu. In the chapter, "The Dynamics of Scale in
   Digital Heritage Cultures," Bettivia and Elizabeth Stainforth, a
   lecturer at the University of Leeds, examine scalar politics as enacted
   through Europeana, the EU digital platform for cultural heritage, and
   the Digital Public Library of America.
   Rhiannon Bettivia

Chan joins iSchool faculty

   March 19 2019

   The iSchool is pleased to announce that Anita Say Chan has joined the
   faculty. She also holds a joint appointment with the College of Media,
   where she is an associate professor of communications in the Department
   of Media and Cinema Studies.
   Anita Say Chan

Cloonan publishes book on cultural heritage preservation

   September 20 2018

   Michèle Valerie Cloonan (MS '84, PhD '88), iSchool research associate
   professor and professor of the School of Library and Information
   Science at Simmons University, has authored a book addressing the
   social, cultural, and political issues in cultural heritage
   preservation. Her book, The Monumental Challenge of Preservation: The
   Past in a Volatile World, was recently published by The MIT Press.
   The Monumental Challenge of Preservation

New book 'beginning' of New Philadelphia story

   September 11 2018

   Professor Emeritus Gerald McWorter (Abdul Alkalimat) and Associate
   Professor Kate Williams have coauthored a book on New Philadelphia, the
   first known town planned and legally registered in the U.S. by an
   African American, Gerald's great-great-grandfather, Free Frank
   McWorter.
   New Philadelphia book cover

Kacunguzi to discuss preserving indigenous knowledge at QQML 2018

   May 21 2018

   Doctoral candidate Dianah T. Kacunguzi will present her research at the
   10th Quantitative and Qualitative Methods in in Libraries International
   Conference (QQML 2018), which will be held on May 22-25 in Chania,
   Greece.
   Doctoral candidate Dianah Kacunguzi

Benson and Green share expertise in copyright, digital publishing at SCI 2017

   November 2 2017

   Master's student Sara Benson, copyright librarian and assistant
   professor at the University Library, and Harriett Green, affiliated
   faculty member and head of scholarly communication and publishing at
   the University Library, have been invited to present at the 2017
   Triangle Scholarly Communication Institute (SCI 2017).
    1. 1
    2. 2
    3. 3

   NEXT

Research

     * Areas
     * Projects
     * Vision
     * Services
     * Showcase
     * Research Fellows
     * Scholars-in-Residence
     * Postdoctoral Researchers
     * Videos

   Back to top
   School of Information Sciences
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

   501 E. Daniel St. MC-493
   Champaign, IL 61820-6211
   Voice (217) 333-3280
   Fax (217) 244-3302
   ischool@illinois.edu

quick links

     * School Directory
     * Visit
     * Help Desk
     * Course Login
     * iSchool Connect
     * IS Virtual Library

campus resources

     * Privacy Notice
     * Campus Directory
     * Graduate College
     * University Library
     * University of Illinois

   ©2024 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
   Cookie Settings</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-8">
<text>   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-5LKL2M2

   Skip to main content
   Simmons University Logo
   Graduate
   (BUTTON) Click to access the menu
     * Academic Programs
          + Find a Program
          + Accelerated Programs
          + Online Master's Programs
          + Online Doctorate Programs
     * Admission
          + How to Apply
          + Visit Us
          + Request Information
          + Admitted Graduate Students
          + Chat with a Grad Student
          + Contact Graduate Admissions
     * Tuition  Financial Aid
          + Tuition and Fees
          + Types of Loans
          + Applying for Aid
          + Forms
          + Policies
          + Financial Literacy
          + Merit Scholarships and Funding Options
          + For Online Students
          + Consumer Information
          + Contact Us
     * Why Simmons
          + Professional Opportunity
          + Graduate Stories
          + Chat with a Grad Student

     * News
     * Events
     * Library
     * Give

     * Request Info
     * Visit
     * Apply

   (BUTTON) Information For Click to expose navigation links on mobile
     * Admitted Undergraduates
     * Admitted Graduate Students
     * Current Students
     * International Students
     * Veterans
     * Alumnae/i and Friends
     * Parents and Families
     * Faculty and Staff
     * College Counselors
     * Adult Learners

   (BUTTON) Search
    1. Home
    2. Graduate
    3. Academic Programs
    4. Library and Information Science: Cultural Heritage Informatics
       Concentration

Library and Information Science: Cultural Heritage Informatics Concentration

   Library and Information Science (MS): Cultural Heritage Informatics
   provides a unique concentration which builds upon Simmons' top rated
   programs in library and information science and archives management.

   IFRAME:
   https://www.youtube.com/embed/qFw2qHO7hF4?autoplay=0start=0rel=0

Make the past your future

   Our students are passionate about cultural heritage in all its forms,
   including rare books, manuscripts, archives, art objects, and all types
   of digital information. Simmons graduates are at the forefront in
   making cultural heritage accessible and in preserving it for future
   generations.

   You'll gain a solid foundation in collecting, preserving, and
   exhibiting cultural heritage in both physical and digital form. You'll
   apply what you've learned through internships and practical engagement
   activities in a wide range of cultural heritage informatics
   institutions.

   Our home in historic New England offers resources and research not
   found in other parts of the country. Our students find successful
   careers in varied settings, including library special collections,
   archives, museums, historical societies and a wide range of public and
   private agencies charged with preserving cultural heritage today.
   (BUTTON) Program Requirements Click to Open

   See program requirements for the Library and Information Science:
   Cultural Heritage Informatics Concentration program.
   (BUTTON) Scholarships, Fellowships, Discounts and Additional Benefits
   Click to Open
     * Learn more about Library and Information Science scholarships,
       fellowships, professional and partner discounts, and other funding
       sources.

   (BUTTON) How to Apply Click to Open

   Ready to take the next step? We'll guide you through the requirements
   and deadlines — and get you started on your way.

   Apply to the on-campus or online program
   Offered As
     * Masters

   School/Department
     * School of Library and Information Science

   Apply NowVisitRequest Info

Our Faculty

   Peter Botticelli photo

Peter Botticelli

     * Associate Professor and Director, Cultural Heritage Informatics
       Concentration

   Michèle Cloonan photograph

Michèle Cloonan

     * Professor and Dean Emerita

   Donia Conn photo

Donia Conn

     * Assistant Professor of Practice

Related Programs

Undergraduate

     * Computer Science + Library and Information Science (3+1)BS, MS
          + BS
          + MS
     * Information Technology + Library and Information Science (3+1)BS,
       MS
          + BS
          + MS

Graduate

     * Children's Literature + Library Services to ChildrenMA, MS
          + MA
          + MS
     * HistoryMA
          + MA
     * Inter-Professional Informationist CertificateCertificate
          + Certificate
     * Library and Information ScienceMS
          + MS
     * Library and Information Science PhDPhD
          + PhD
     * Library and Information Science: Archives Management + HistoryMA,
       MS
          + MA
          + MS
     * Library and Information Science: Archives Management
       CertificateCertificate
          + Certificate
     * Library and Information Science: Archives Management
       ConcentrationMS
          + MS
     * Library and Information Science: Information Science and Technology
       ConcentrationMS
          + MS
     * Library and Information Science: School Library Teacher
       ConcentrationMS
          + MS
     * Library and Information Science: School Library Teacher
       LicensureCertificate
          + Certificate
     * Teaching + HistoryMA, MAT
          + MA
          + MAT

Take the Next Step

     * Request Information
     * Visit
     * Apply

     * Undergraduate Site
     * Graduate Site
     * Online Programs Site

Resources

     * Library
     * Events
     * Maps and Directions
     * Athletics
     * Faculty Directory
     * Financial Reporting
     * Public Safety
     * Title IX
     * Report an Incident

More

     * Contact Us
     * Give
     * Work at Simmons

   © 2024 Simmons University
     * Report a Barrier
     * Privacy
     * Consumer Information

   Simmons University Logo

   300 The Fenway
   Boston, MA 02115

   (617) 521-2000
     * Simmons University Youtube
     * Simmons University Facebook
     * Simmons University Twitter
     * Simmons University LinkedIn
     * Simmons University Instagram</text>
</page> §
<page="EN-9">
<text>   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-PHL3H8B

     * Skip to Content
     * Skip to Main Navigation
     * Skip to Search
     __________________________________________________________________

   Indiana University Bloomington Indiana University Bloomington IU
   Bloomington

   Open Search

   (BUTTON) Menu
     * About
     * How to Apply
          + Graduate Application
          + Funding Opportunities
     * Programs
          + B.S. in Informatics
               o Cognates
          + Undergraduate Minors
          + Undergraduate Certificates
          + M.S. Informatics
               o Animal Informatics
          + M.S. in Human-Computer Interaction
          + Accelerated M.S.I.S.
          + Ph.D. in Informatics
               o Animal Informatics
               o Bioinformatics
               o Complex Networks and Systems
               o Computing, Culture, and Society
               o Human-Computer Interaction/Design
               o Health Informatics
               o Intelligent and Interactive Systems
               o Security Informatics
               o Virtual Heritage
          + Ph.D. Minors
     * Courses
     * Career Prep
     * Research
     * Faculty Directory
     * Contact
          + People Directory

     * News
     * Events
          + Virtual Chats
          + Informatics Colloquiums
     * Student Portal
          + Who students should contact and when
          + Graduate Forms
          + Associate Instructor (AI) Information
               o Training Acknowledgement
               o Apply for an AI Position
          + Handbooks

School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering

   Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering

Department of Informatics

     * Home
     * About
     * How to Apply
          + Graduate Application
          + Funding Opportunities
     * Programs
          + B.S. in Informatics
          + Undergraduate Minors
          + Undergraduate Certificates
          + M.S. Informatics
          + M.S. in Human-Computer Interaction
          + Accelerated M.S.I.S.
          + Ph.D. in Informatics
          + Ph.D. Minors
     * Courses
     * Career Prep
     * Research
     * Faculty Directory
     * Contact
          + People Directory
     * Search

     * News
     * Events
     * Student Portal

   Two people speak over a laptop.

     * Home

     Programs

     Ph.D. in Informatics

Ph.D. in Informatics

Take your knowledge to the next level with a Ph.D. in Informatics

   As an informatics Ph.D. student, you’ll conduct practical and
   theoretical research into areas such as complex networks and systems,
   human-computer interaction design, and virtual heritage. When you’ve
   earned your degree, you’ll have the knowledge and skills you need to
   become a leader in academia, government, industry, or the nonprofit
   sector.

Pick your specialization

   While you’re doing your Ph.D. research, you’ll work in several
   disciplines, but you’ll also choose an area, or track, in which to
   specialize.
     * Animal Informatics
     * Bioinformatics
     * Complex Networks and Systems
     * Computing, Culture, and Society
     * Human-Computer Interaction/Design
     * Health Informatics
     * Intelligent and Interactive Systems
     * Security Informatics
     * Virtual Heritage

Choose a minor

   All Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering doctoral
   students are required to complete either a minor within the school or
   an approved minor outside the school. Your minor should relate to your
   research, as determined by your advisory committee.

   To learn about Ph.D. minors outside of Luddy, visit the websites of IU
   Bloomington’s other degree-granting colleges and schools.

Learn more about our Informatics graduate programs

   If you’re interested in learning more about our Informatics graduate
   programs, consider attending one of our prospective graduate student
   events. We host online and on-campus events to give you the information
   you need about the admission process and available academic tracks.
   Request more information

Review your degree requirements

   Degree requirements for the Ph.D. in Informatics and Ph.D. minors are
   listed in the University Graduate School’s academic bulletin. To review
   your specific requirements, choose the bulletin that represents the
   year you started, or plan to start, your program.

   If your start year isn’t listed here, you can find an earlier bulletin.

   2023-24 bulletin

   2022-23 bulletin

   2021-22 bulletin

Not ready for your Ph.D. yet? We’ve got you covered.

   Explore our other degrees

     * B.S. in Informatics
     * Undergraduate Minors
     * Undergraduate Certificates
     * M.S. Informatics
     * M.S. in Human-Computer Interaction
     * Accelerated M.S.I.S.
     * Ph.D. in Informatics
          + Animal Informatics
          + Bioinformatics
          + Complex Networks and Systems
          + Computing, Culture, and Society
          + Human-Computer Interaction/Design
          + Health Informatics
          + Intelligent and Interactive Systems
          + Security Informatics
          + Virtual Heritage
     * Ph.D. Minors

Department of Informatics resources and social media channels

     * Service Requests
     * Luddy Policies

     * Twitter
     * Facebook
     * Instagram
     * YouTube
     * LinkedIn

   Indiana University

   Accessibility | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2023 The Trustees of
   Indiana University</text>
</page> §
</lang>
