   [header-logo.png]
   (BUTTON) NAVIGATION
     * Home
     * About PNHP
          + About PNHP
          + How We Work
          + Mission
          + Our Staff
          + Contact Us
     * News and Events
     * Resources
          + Environmental Review Lists
          + Species & Natural Features
          + Plant Communities
          + Rank and Status Definitions
          + PNHP Projects Story Map
          + Vernal Pools
          + Aquatic Communities
          + Publications
          + Links
     * Tools
          + PA Community Prediction Tool
          + County Natural Heritage Inventories
          + Conservation Opportunity Area Tool
          + Plant Factsheets
          + iMapInvasives
          + Climate Change Vulnerability Index
          + Natural Heritage Area Story Maps
          + Submit and Request Data
     * Conservation Explorer
     *  Search

   View the Pennsylvania Natural Heritage Program's 2022 Annual Report.
   Visit our Story Map to discover plant and wildlife research projects
   PNHP is working on across Pennsylvania.
   Conservation Explorer provides access to conservation information,
   leading to better planning and reduced project impacts.
   PNHP inventories and maintains a list of plant and wildlife species,
   communities and rare features of conservation concern.
   Find instructions and forms for submitting data to or requesting data
   from PNHP.
   Learn about the appearance, habitat, distribution, and conservation
   management of important plant species in Pennsylvania.
   Read the Fall 2023 issue of Wild Heritage News.

Welcome

   The Pennsylvania Natural Heritage Program (PNHP) is a partnership
   between the Pennsylvania Department of Conservation and Natural
   Resources (DCNR), the Pennsylvania Fish and Boat Commission (PFBC), the
   Pennsylvania Game Commission (PGC), and the Western Pennsylvania
   Conservancy (WPC) in cooperation with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife
   Service. PNHP is a member of NatureServe, an international network of
   natural heritage programs that gather and provide information on the
   location and status of important ecological resources (plants,
   vertebrates, invertebrates, ecological communities and geologic
   features). Our purpose is to provide current, reliable, objective
   ecological data and analysis to help guide conservation work and
   land-use planning.
   ...

About PNHP

   Learn about our mission, how we work, and how to contact our staff.
   ...

Species and Natural Features

   Find species and features subject to environmental review by PNHP
   jurisdictional partner agencies. View other species of interest, rare
   natural communities, or geologic features.
   ...

Ecological Communities

   Find tools to identify terrestrial, palustrine and aquatic ecological
   communities found in Pennsylvania and learn about their importance.
   ...

Conservation Tools

   Explore interactive maps and conservation tools including the County
   Natural Heritage Inventory, Conservation Opportunity Area tool, Plant
   Factsheets, iMap Invasives, Conservation Case Studies and more.
   ...

Research and Initiatives

   Access PNHP scientific publications and explore projects our staff are
   working on to address climate change, protect vernal pools, and study
   plants and wildlife across Pennsylvania.
   ...

Conservation Explorer

   Visit the Conservation Explorer for conservation planning purposes and
   Pennsylvania Natural Diversity Inventory (PNDI) environmental review.


   PNHP is a partnership between The Department of Conservation and
   Natural Resources,
   the Pennsylvania Game Commission, the Pennsylvania Fish and Boat
   Commission,
   and the Western Pennsylvania Conservancy.
   DCNR Home Page
   PA Game Commission Home Page
   PA Fish and Boat Commission Home Page
   Western PA Conservancy Home Page
   DCNR Home Page PNHP | Forestry Home | Contact Us | Search This Site
   © 2019 PA Department of Conservation and Natural Resources DCNR Home
   Page
