   #PDF Full-Text HTML Full-Text XML Full-Text MDPI Publishing - Latest
   articles

   Next Article in Journal
   Topological Data Analysis Helps to Improve Accuracy of Deep Learning
   Models for Fake News Detection Trained on Very Small Training Sets
   Next Article in Special Issue
   ACUX Recommender: A Mobile Recommendation System for Multi-Profile
   Cultural Visitors Based on Visiting Preferences Classification

   Previous Article in Journal
   Lightweight AI Framework for Industry 4.0 Case Study: Water Meter
   Recognition
   Previous Article in Special Issue
   Networks and Stories. Analyzing the Transmission of the Feminist
   Intangible Cultural Heritage on Twitter

Journals

   Active Journals Find a Journal Proceedings Series

Topics

Information

   For Authors For Reviewers For Editors For Librarians For Publishers For
   Societies For Conference Organizers
   Open Access Policy Institutional Open Access Program Special Issues
   Guidelines Editorial Process Research and Publication Ethics Article
   Processing Charges Awards Testimonials

Author Services

Initiatives

   Sciforum MDPI Books Preprints.org Scilit SciProfiles Encyclopedia JAMS
   Proceedings Series

About

   Overview Contact Careers News Press Blog
   Sign In / Sign Up

Notice

   You can make submissions to other journals here.
   clear

Notice

   You are accessing a machine-readable page. In order to be
   human-readable, please install an RSS reader.
   Continue Cancel
   clear

   All articles published by MDPI are made immediately available worldwide
   under an open access license. No special permission is required to
   reuse all or part of the article published by MDPI, including figures
   and tables. For articles published under an open access Creative Common
   CC BY license, any part of the article may be reused without permission
   provided that the original article is clearly cited. For more
   information, please refer to https://www.mdpi.com/openaccess.

   Feature papers represent the most advanced research with significant
   potential for high impact in the field. A Feature Paper should be a
   substantial original Article that involves several techniques or
   approaches, provides an outlook for future research directions and
   describes possible research applications.

   Feature papers are submitted upon individual invitation or
   recommendation by the scientific editors and must receive positive
   feedback from the reviewers.

   Editor‚Äôs Choice articles are based on recommendations by the scientific
   editors of MDPI journals from around the world. Editors select a small
   number of articles recently published in the journal that they believe
   will be particularly interesting to readers, or important in the
   respective research area. The aim is to provide a snapshot of some of
   the most exciting work published in the various research areas of the
   journal.

   You seem to have javascript disabled. Please note that many of the page
   functionalities won't work as expected without javascript enabled.

   MDPI Open Access Journals
   clear zoom_out_map search menu

   MDPI Open Access Journals
     * Journals
          +
               o Active Journals
               o Find a Journal
               o Proceedings Series
     * Topics
     * Information
          +
               o For Authors
               o For Reviewers
               o For Editors
               o For Librarians
               o For Publishers
               o For Societies
               o For Conference Organizers
               o Open Access Policy
               o Institutional Open Access Program
               o Special Issues Guidelines
               o Editorial Process
               o Research and Publication Ethics
               o Article Processing Charges
               o Awards
               o Testimonials
     * Author Services
     * Initiatives
          +
               o Sciforum
               o MDPI Books
               o Preprints.org
               o Scilit
               o SciProfiles
               o Encyclopedia
               o JAMS
               o Proceedings Series
     * About
          +
               o Overview
               o Contact
               o Careers
               o News
               o Press
               o Blog

   Sign In / Sign Up Submit


   Search for Articles:
   Title / Keyword
   ____________________
   Author / Affiliation / Email
   ____________________
   Journal
   [Big Data and Cognitive Computing (BDCC)_______________________________
   _____...]
   Article Type
   [All Article Types....]

   Search

   Advanced Search

   Section
   []
   Special Issue
   []
   Volume
   ____________________
   Issue
   ____________________
   Number
   ____________________
   Page
   ____________________

   Logical OperatorOperator
   [AND]
   Search Text
   ____________________
   Search Type
   [All fields..]

   add_circle_outline
   remove_circle_outline

   Search

   Journals
   BDCC
   Volume 6
   Issue 3
   10.3390/bdcc6030073
   BDCC-logo
   Submit to this Journal Review for this Journal Propose a Special Issue
   ‚ñ∫ ‚ñº Article Menu

Article Menu

     * Academic Editor
       [unknown-user.png?1701675533] Fabrizio Marozzo
     * Subscribe SciFeed
     * Recommended Articles
     * Related Info Link
          + Google Scholar
     * More by Authors Links
          + on DOAJ
               o Poulopoulos, V.
               o
               o Wallace, M.
               o
          + on Google Scholar
               o Poulopoulos, V.
               o
               o Wallace, M.
               o
          + on PubMed
               o Poulopoulos, V.
               o
               o Wallace, M.
               o

   /ajax/scifeed/subscribe
   Article Views
   Citations -
     * Table of Contents

   Altmetric share Share announcement Help format_quote Cite
   question_answer Discuss in SciProfiles thumb_up
   ...
   Endorse textsms
   ...
   Comment

Need Help?

Support

   Find support for a specific problem in the support section of our
   website.
   Get Support

Feedback

   Please let us know what you think of our products and services.
   Give Feedback

Information

   Visit our dedicated information section to learn more about MDPI.
   Get Information
   clear

JSmol Viewer

   clear
   first_page
   Download PDF
   settings
   Order Article Reprints
   Font Type:
   Arial Georgia Verdana
   Font Size:
   Aa Aa Aa
   Line Spacing:
   ÔÄ¥ ÔÄ¥ ÔÄ¥
   Column Width:
   ÔÄµ ÔÄµ ÔÄµ
   Background:

   Open AccessEditor‚Äôs ChoiceArticle

Digital Technologies and the Role of Data in Cultural Heritage: The Past, the
Present, and the Future

   by
   [633c33598fc35editor_63352.png] Vassilis Poulopoulos
   [633c33598fc35editor_63352.png] Vassilis Poulopoulos
   Scilit Preprints.org Google Scholar
   View Publications
   ^*,‚Ä†^ ORCID and
   [628f185a16f99coffee.jpg] Manolis Wallace
   [628f185a16f99coffee.jpg] Manolis Wallace
   Scilit Preprints.org Google Scholar
   View Publications
   ^‚Ä†^ ORCID
   Knowledge and Uncertainty Research Laboratory, University of the
   Peloponnese, 221 31 Tripolis, Greece
   ^*
   Author to whom correspondence should be addressed.
   ^‚Ä
   These authors contributed equally to this work.
   Big Data Cogn. Comput. 2022, 6(3), 73;
   https://doi.org/10.3390/bdcc6030073
   Received: 4 May 2022 / Revised: 21 June 2022 / Accepted: 28 June 2022 /
   Published: 4 July 2022
   (This article belongs to the Special Issue Big Data Analytics for
   Cultural Heritage)
   Download keyboard_arrow_down
   Download PDF
   Download PDF with Cover
   Download XML
   Download Epub
   Browse Figure
   Review Reports Versions Notes

Abstract

   :
   Is culture considered to be our past, our roots, ancient ruins, or an
   old piece of art? Culture is all the factors that define who we are,
   how we act and interact in our world, in our daily activities, in our
   personal and public relations, in our life. Culture is all the things
   we are not obliged to do. However, today, we live in a mixed
   environment, an environment that is a combination of ‚Äúoffline‚Äù and the
   online, digital world. In this mixed environment, it is technology that
   defines our behaviour, technology that unites people in a large world,
   that finally, defines a status of ‚Äúmonoculture‚Äù. In this article, we
   examine the role of technology, and especially big data, in relation to
   the culture. We present the advances that led to paradigm shifts in the
   research area of cultural informatics, and forecast the future of
   culture as will be defined in this mixed world.
   Keywords:
   big data; culture; cultural informatics; museum informatics; mixed
   environment; social media

1. Introduction

   We live in an era that is defined by technology and its advances. Every
   aspect of our everyday life includes a kind of a machine. The type of
   machine that Turing and Von Neumann described [1,2], where people
   explicitly or implicitly provide inputs which a machine processes and
   then outputs results. Explicitly, in the cases where people are aware
   of the information shared, information that is intentionally provided
   to any kind of machine in order to fulfill a job; implicitly in any
   other case, in which technology collects information in order to
   ‚Äúpredict‚Äù and aim towards a better world. However, when it comes to
   culture, to the past that defines who we are today, and how we will
   progress for the rest of our lives, then it is based upon every single
   person‚Äôs selections, on how to respond to technology; we define‚Äîor
   should define‚Äîthe way, and not technology or algorithms.
   Technology and culture is not a novel combination. More than 50 years
   ago, people in the humanities, primarily in museums, were seeking for
   technological assistance [3,4]. Simple databases were the beginning of
   the need for a technological presence in cultural institutions [5].
   While the technology was emerging, the technologically unexploited area
   of museum informatics was gaining attention. Museum informatics was the
   ‚Äúbeginning‚Äù; it was the noble area that technology could explore. A
   first ‚Äòtouch‚Äô between technology and humanities; actually a large part
   of humanities.
   As technology was advancing, it was not only cultural spaces that
   attracted the attention of innovation. Culture is spread all around us;
   new types of culture were defined, and as this kept happening,
   technology was finding a new area of application. The simple‚Äîyet
   advanced for its age‚Äîresearch on databases and cultural spaces started
   to shift with the domination of the world wide web. It was the time
   that the Internet started to seem an ideal space for virtual museum
   tours and multimedia presentations [6]. Despite the fact that the
   humanities declined to follow the pace of technological advances,
   technology still remained present in several aspects of culture.
   Virtual reality, augmented reality, social media, 3D representations,
   aerial photos (scanning), personalization, mesh networking, IoT, and
   automated guidance, and more technological advances will define the
   next two decades.
   Today, we should be thinking of modern culture, everyday culture, and
   ‚Äúonline‚Äù culture. That is, because, over the years, our perspective
   towards culture is changing. It is not only technology that makes us
   change, but it is the medium (technology) that led to a more universal
   environment, in which we are eventually forced to live. People are,
   more than ever, closer to new cultures, behaviours, religions,
   socio-economical approaches, music, art, movies and more. One could
   claim that the internet has generated a new type of culture, though, it
   seems to be very flat.
   People tend to use technology in order to overcome problems, to do
   their job faster, but at the end of the day, they remain out of time.
   The amount of data generated and targeted towards people is such that
   they are unable to process them, to give them the period of time data
   deserve (and people deserve). Technology is the solution to problems,
   but was provided to the people without any guidelines; ending up as a
   means of a universal monoculture generation.
   Technology today is capable of uniting the whole world. We are able to
   ‚Äútravel‚Äù to places that we would not be able to in our real life. We
   can talk, discuss, learn, and exchange culture with people from the
   other side of the Earth. However, the ease of access generates the
   problem of huge amounts of information that no human being is able to
   process; at least in real time. We live the era of big data and
   culture. Technology is the medium to communicate and spread culture;
   cultural organizations need to define their presence in this world, and
   people should be able to ‚Äúsurvive‚Äù in this world without losing their
   roots. As such, we need to review the position of technology in
   culture, especially when it comes as a massive stream expressed through
   big data.
   In this manuscript, we examine the effect of technology on culture, how
   the advances of technology emerged and altered the way culture is
   accessed by a broader audience, the way culture is presented, recorded,
   and spread. In parallel, we envisage a future of culture spread among
   people and discuss how cultural related organizations should adapt
   their processes in this future. The next section presents technology in
   culture from its very beginning, until today and the connection to
   data. It is also focused on big data, projects related to culture, as
   well as the role of social media. We present a view of what is expected
   from the combination of technology and culture in the future. Finally,
   the discussion on technology and culture is presented.

2. Technology in Culture

   The advances of technology are vast. Many of them are directly or
   indirectly related to culture in any of its forms. A great deal of
   research is being conducted on the combination of technology and
   culture, having many different perspectives. Researchers tend to
   support that there is a two-way relationship between technology and
   culture [7,8,9,10]. Of course, they are precise, as civilizations that
   dominated parts of the world in history are directly related to
   advanced technologies for their era. As mentioned, a large number of
   efforts examine the connection and the effect between culture and
   technology [11,12,13,14]. Furthermore, it is obvious that culture and
   arts were part of the past civilizations that managed to have their
   ‚Äúbasic problems‚Äù solved; and in order to do so technology must had been
   very advanced, at least for their era.
   In the modern world we need to narrow down the relation of technology
   to culture, only to what is related to computers and the internet. It
   is this kind of technology that altered the way we got used to face
   culture and react to it.

2.1. The First Steps

   The first recorded efforts in the modern world can be found in the
   1970s. R.G. Chenball discussed museum cataloguing in the ‚ÄòComputer Age‚Äô
   [5], while J.D. Wilcock tried to establish the role of the computer in
   archaeology [15]. It is obvious that researchers were trying to
   interconnect advances in technology with culture and, as a first step,
   several efforts were focused primarily on museum cataloguing [16] or
   even systems to classify any man-made object (e.g., nomenclature
   [17,18]). Still, the problem is close to the one we face today, there
   was no common language for the standardization of the systems and
   processes. As D.C. Stam [19] states in 1989, ‚Äúthe already reaching 20
   years of research on museum informatics had not ended up with a common
   standard‚Äù. So, a first generation of cooperation between culture and
   technology in the modern world is directly related to databases.

2.2. The Internet

   Not very far from this first approach, technology started entering
   several different areas of the humanities and affecting culture. With
   the internet era rising, the relation between culture and technology
   started its path on the Net. Cultural informatics became more
   extrovert, a number of conferences started focusing on technology and
   culture (museums) and a shift has started by considering the
   interaction with the visitor as an equally important factor. D.
   Bearman, editor of ‚ÄòArchives and Museums Informatics‚Äô, was a pioneer in
   the field with numerous research on the issue of hypermedia and
   interactivity, as well as the presence on the web [6,20,21]. We are
   entering an era of technology where a huge number of changes are
   happening. The wide adaptation of the Internet and emerging
   technologies, such as digitization, object visualization, 3D
   representations, Virtual Reality, Augmented and Enhanced Reality,
   Artificial Intelligence, Semantic Representations, and Ontology
   Specification are only some of the factors that affect cultural
   informatics. People do not hesitate to adopt the Internet, and cultural
   informatics has to follow [22,23]. W. Schweibenz examines both the
   perspective of the Internet as a knowledge-base and as a communication
   system [24]. He is also referring to the cultural spaces as the
   ‚Äúvirtual museum‚Äù. The term is not something novel for the museums [25].
   Many years after his first approach on the ‚Äúvirtual museum‚Äù he still
   thinks that museums are standing still. He states: ‚ÄúThe idea of
   becoming virtual might not be a pleasant one for some museums, but this
   development is inevitable because of the increasing digitisation of
   cultural heritage and the demand to make collections more accessible‚Äù
   [26]. It is obvious that it is a matter of accessibility. The stakes
   for the museums are clear: either they follow the river or they remain
   a sterile space.

2.3. Virtual Worlds

   The changes in museums and cultural spaces are huge. The first decade
   of the 21st century is almost monopolized with Virtual and Augmented
   Reality in the museums [27,28,29,30,31,32,33,34]. This ‚Äúdifferentiated
   reality‚Äù can be found in several forms, named Virtual, Augmented,
   Mixed, or Extended (referred to as XR from now on). It all refers to
   ‚Äúphotorealistic representations of places, people and sites that do not
   exist, never existed, or may not be easily experienced‚Äù [28]. In
   parallel, it is possible to provide a lot of data (information) and
   enable interactions. The most extraordinary about this technology seems
   to be the ‚Äúimmersion‚Äù, which is the ‚Äúillusion of being in the projected
   (author note: idealized) world, in such a way that makes you believe
   that you are really there‚Äù, that leads to the assumption that it may
   offer a ‚Äúbetter than real life‚Äù experience [28].
   The facts about virtual, mixed, and augmented reality are simple. The
   visitor can have an alternative enhanced experience, either it is
   on-site or online (remote) as well. Moreover, XR takes advantage of the
   digitization of objects, places, and cites, a procedure that was and is
   already underway, but possibly not utilized. Virtual exhibitions can be
   multiple instead of the single exhibition that is formed by the
   original objects. It is a matter of fact, that only a small amount of
   the objects that a museum owns are exposed to public. XR may provide
   information about ‚Äúhidden‚Äù objects and artefacts as well. A survey at
   the end of the decade proves that the steps being taken are numerous
   [35].
   Virtual Reality and Augmented Reality have never lost their glamour
   till today. In fact, research on the field is such that the number of
   XR solutions for museums is huge [36,37,38,39,40,41]. The idea of XR in
   museums does not change from its very early roots: enhancing the
   visitor‚Äôs experience. Throughout the years, research includes several
   different factors, either related to personalized content (better
   applied to AR), differentiated environments (worlds) in which the user
   navigates, presentation of different objects, representation of the
   past and rebuilding ancient ruins (e.g., Ancient Olympia
   (https://inculture.microsoft.com/arts/ancient-olympia-common-grounds/,
   accessed on 27 June 2022‚ÄîDigitally preserving and restoring Ancient
   Olympia as it stood over 2000 years ago) and more. We have already been
   informed that the future of one of the most well-known social media
   platforms will emerge in virtual reality. We are talking about Meta
   from Facebook (Meta‚Äîhttps://about.facebook.com/meta/, accessed on 27
   June 2022 which is referred to as ‚Äú...the next evolution of social
   connection‚Äù.

2.4. Metadata

   Another important aspect of museum informatics is related to
   information representation. As digitization is continuous and
   unstoppable there is a strong need of a common ‚Äúlanguage‚Äù for data
   recording. Ontologies try to provide a solution to this issue. The
   CIDOC conceptual reference model provides a generic solution [42],
   while, other conceptual models proposed are not that widespread. The
   CIDOC CRM represents an ‚Äúontology‚Äù for cultural heritage information,
   i.e., it describes in a formal language the explicit and implicit
   concepts and relations relevant to the documentation of cultural
   heritage. On the other hand, one can find a large number of protocols
   that are constructed in order to describe cultural related objects.
   However, when one deals with information recording there is a strong
   need to define metadata that accompany such a kind of object. According
   to [43], four aspects of the cultural data have to be discussed and
   taken under consideration when dealing with metadata of museum and
   cultural objects. These are:
     * Data structure standards;
     * Data content standards;
     * Data value standards;
     * Data format/exchange standards.

   For each of the aforementioned sections, there is a set of information
   that accompanies and provides useful information. The important part of
   this analysis is not only the fact that technology is hugely affecting
   the way that cultural information is recorded, but the fact that we are
   facing a completely differentiated analysis of the approach of database
   creation; and this is because we are facing an occasion where the
   audience does not have a technological background‚Äîinstead the audience
   is related to humanities‚Äîbut still the effort of technology adoption is
   great.
   Talking about metadata, there is a strong need to realize their
   importance for the multilevel analysis of data deriving from cultural
   objects. Metadata are information related to an object and provide
   answers to questions that can be considered ‚Äúadditional information‚Äù.
   For example, trying to ‚Äúexplain‚Äù or ‚Äúunderstand‚Äù a piece of art from an
   artist, our work could be made easier if we new when and where he was
   born, not to mention their personal and family status or socio-economic
   conditions. This (add-on) information is the medium to interpret parts
   of the work, as well as make connections with the past, the present,
   and the future of the artist, and ours. So metadata are the information
   carrier that demolishes any barriers that block the universality of
   culture.
   The actual part related to metadata is the numerous efforts worldwide
   to record information about objects, thus creating large sets of
   scattered databases. Within these grounds, Europeana holds the largest
   artefact database in Europe, trying in parallel for two aspects [44].
   First of all, empower the recording of cultural related information and
   secondly, establishing a prototype so that the information is not only
   ‚Äúsaved‚Äù and ‚Äúpreserved‚Äù digitally but also be portable and readable;
   ultimately, accessible to everyone.

2.5. Content Digitization

   Apart from the information that is related to an object‚Äôs metadata we
   should also stand on the digitization part. Although metadata can be
   considered the information carrier for an object‚Äôs digital existence,
   the digitization is the part that holds the actual ‚Äúimage‚Äù. Applying
   only to tangible cultural heritage the power of images is such that
   digitization is considered to be one of the major branches of the
   research related to cultural informatics, having a great impact on the
   combination of technology and culture [45].
   Talking about digitization, one can consider that taking a picture of
   an artefact is sufficient to talk about digitization. This is not very
   far from being true apart from the fact that the digitization process
   is also a process that has specific standards and protocols. The
   European Commission has once more invested a large number of projects
   related to digital cultural heritage focusing on the digitisation
   processes.
   https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/policies/cultural-heritage,
   accessed on 27 June 2022. Projects like VHH (Visual History of the
   Holocaust‚Äîhttps://www.vhh-project.eu/, accessed on 27 June 2022) which
   is an innovation action that focuses on the digital curation and
   preservation of film records relating to the discovery of Nazi
   concentration camps and other atrocity sites, or such as GRAVITATE
   (Geometric reconstruction and novel semantic reunification of cultural
   heritage objects, https://cordis.europa.eu/project/id/665155, accessed
   on 27 June 2022 and Scan4Reco (Multimodal scanning of cultural heritage
   assets for their multilayered digitization and preventive conservation
   via spatiotemporal 4D reconstruction and 3D printing,
   https://scan4reco.iti.gr/, accessed on 27 June 2022) put the research
   efforts on the cultural objects and the procedures for preservation and
   digitization.
   Although these efforts are considered to be ‚Äúmodern‚Äù the need for
   digitization started together with the efforts of information recording
   and it started the decade of the world-wide web expansion. Reproducing
   the words from [46] back in 1996 we understand the level of innovation
   at that time. Mannoni states when analysing the organisation,
   publishing and distributing large collections of materials online: ‚ÄúWe
   used Kodak photo CD technology for digitalization and CERN World-Wide
   Web technology for the HTTP daemon linked to a WAIS research engine to
   query the database‚Äù. It was‚Äîonce more‚Äî‚Äúthe Internet‚Äù, the need for
   online presentation, publishing and sharing of our history and culture
   that brought digitization to an advanced level. Other efforts refer to
   practices and techniques for digitization [47,48], till reaching the
   point where the procedures for digitization include 3D, photogrammetry,
   and point clouds [49,50,51,52,53,54,55,56,57,58,59,60,61], making the
   digitization process reach very high levels of representation fidelity.
   The digitization procedure provides a ‚Äúpicture‚Äù of the cultural
   objects. However, technology has emerged and digitization procedure
   together with artificial intelligence and 3D technologies can be used
   to restore [62], redesign, and regenerate objects. The possibility for
   rapid prototyping of such objects inspired and intrigued research
   [63,64,65].
   However, digitization and publishing on the Internet generates a number
   of side issues especially related to copyrights which remains a field
   of huge discussion till nowadays [66,67,68,69,70].

2.6. Adaptation on People

   In the last decade, we have witnessed a paradigm shift that is directly
   related to data generation and culture spread. Culture in the modern
   world, from the perspective of a museum, has gone through many
   different stages. Starting from the object-centric approach, to the
   museum-centric, leading today to people-centric approaches.
   Having all of the world in their pockets, or more precisely in their
   hands, people are the centre for some cultural informatics approaches.
   Customization, personalization, personality of the people are only some
   of the ‚Äúkeywords‚Äù that lead to this change of stance towards people
   [71,72,73]. The museum is not just an information carrier, the object
   is not only a masterpiece, the work from curators and guides is not
   only static, but we are designing experiences and their maximization,
   brain stimulation, immersion of different levels, and total adaptation
   to the needs of the visitors. The efforts being made are based upon the
   existing technologies (XR, Digitized material, metadata, web), but they
   are tailor-made for each user. A whole new generation of application
   related to museums and cultural spaces is born, including user
   personalization, adaptive content, custom storytelling even procedures
   in order to combine physical with digital narratives. Apart from the
   aforementioned, the research works presented in [74,75,76]. are typical
   examples of research approaches targeting on the connection of user
   profiles with the museum visit.
   Personalization becomes a matter with the evolution of the web in the
   early 2000s, where user generated content begins to be large enough to
   enable users to be producers of information. It is the time when web
   personlization is established as part of a museum‚Äôs online presence as
   well [77]. P. F. Marty, a pioneer in museum informatics does not stop
   to mention the personalization as an important factor in a user‚Äôs
   experience [78]. Many cases start to appear in several museums around
   the world [79], while the parallel rise of online games makes it
   possible to create personalized experiences in the online virtual
   worlds, such as Second Life [80]. As we approach the present, a
   combination of technologies occur for the personalization, including
   visitors‚Äô personal devices, as well storytelling and narratives
   [81,82,83,84].
   Machine learning, especially through artificial intelligence has played
   important roles in the scope of adding algorithmic approaches to the
   process of interconnecting people with culture. An extensive survey on
   machine learning for cultural heritage has recently been presented by
   Fiorucci et al. [85]. They conclude, however, ‚Äúin most cases that ML is
   applied to culture, it is a ‚Äòblack box‚Äô for the research community‚Äù and
   that it is usually focused on ‚Äúvisual or textual features‚Äù. In
   parallel, despite the fact that CH data are created so as to be
   publicly available for everyone, still, only some of the large cultural
   organizations enable access to large sets of data.

2.7. Projects Related to Culture and Technology

   Europe has performed enormous steps towards supporting the
   interconnection of culture and technology. A huge amount of funding has
   been and keeps being invested in cultural informatics and cultural
   heritage. Europeana (Europeana, Discover inspiring European Cultural
   Heritage, https://www.europeana.eu, accessed on 27 June 2022) is a main
   axe in founding a place of common grounds. A place to define a common
   language, to dig for our roots, to search for interconnections.
   According to its website, Europeana ‚Äúprovides cultural heritage
   enthusiasts, professionals, teachers, and researchers with digital
   access to European cultural heritage material‚Äù. This is performed in
   order ‚Äúto inspire and inform fresh perspectives and open conversations
   about our history and culture‚Äù. This is achieved with the support of
   the European countries‚Äô local authorities that force digitization
   procedures to follow the model defined by Europeana for the metadata
   description (Europeana Data Model (Europeana Data Model,
   https://pro.europeana.eu/page/edm-documentation, accessed on 27 June
   2022). An equally important project is CLARIAH [86,87] which is
   established by the merge of projects CLARIN [88] and DARIA [89]. DARIAH
   project ‚Äúdevelops, maintains and operates an infrastructure in support
   of ICT-based research practices and sustains researchers in using them
   to build, analyse, and interpret digital resources‚Äù, while CLARIN
   project ‚Äúcreates and maintains an infrastructure to support the
   sharing, use and sustainability of language data and tools for research
   in the humanities and social sciences‚Äù. It is obvious that they both
   serve similar roles within the research field of humanities and
   supporting IT tools. This is the reason they were merged into CLARIAH
   project, which scope is to ‚Äúprovide researchers with access to large
   collections of digital data and to innovative and user-friendly
   applications for the processing of these data‚Äù
   (https://www.clariah.nl/about-clariah, accessed on 27 June 2022).
   Apart from Europeana, that leads the way to digitization and access to
   culture and cultural heritage, an important procedure in order to
   interconnect with our roots, during the last two decades, a large
   number of research projects have been funded in order to tackle
   problems in the field of cultural informatics. The efforts being made
   in order to create a bridge between informatics and humanities are
   enormous. Starting from simple steps mainly in museums in order to
   offer a better experience to the visitor, or attract more people,
   leading to complex AR systems, technology remains a powerful tool for
   both ‚Äúfront-end‚Äù and ‚Äúback-end‚Äù activities as well.
   The ARCHES project scope was to help people in environments where
   inclusion is an important issue. People with difficulties or
   differences was the main target in order to associate with perception,
   cognition, communication, and memory (Project ID: 693229). The project
   outcomes include recognition of data on how people interact with
   cultural related incentives. CROSSCULT intends to target the
   understanding of European common history, which is achieved by
   providing advanced experiences and entertainment through social
   learning [90]. Within the scope of this project, a number of factors,
   including analysis of large data, were researched [91].
   GRAVITATE (GRAVITATE: Discovering relationships between artefacts using
   3D and semantic data. EU H2020 REFLECTIVE project) focuses on geometric
   reconstruction. Apart from that it researches novel ways of displays
   (e.g., virtual or tangible) in order to present and communicate
   relationships of past societies.
   Virtual museums and ‚Äúemotive storytelling‚Äù is the main research outcome
   of EMTOIVE project. Supporting the creation of virtual spaces,
   especially for the creative industries, is the main objective and it is
   achieved by defining and researching new tools and methodologies [92].
   In this case, the project acts as a medium of good practices for
   content generation in the online world. PLUGGY supports citizens in
   shaping cultural heritage and being shaped by it. Amongst its goals is
   to look at new approaches of presenting cultural resources, and new
   ways of experiencing them [93].
   Another important project trying to support virtual museums is ViMM. It
   focuses on supporting the world‚Äôs leading public and private sector
   organisations, using high-quality technical approaches [94]. Although
   ArchAIDE aims to serve mainly archaeologists, it also has a number of
   outcomes related to visualization that can help the access to
   archaeological heritage. It actually deals with large scale data in
   archaeology [95].
   The fact that Europe keeps changing, and people that live or inhabit in
   it, or deal with the digital world are largely unaware of the heritage
   is the main targte of Rices project [96]. Digital heritage in a mixed
   environment, as well as identifying the differentiation between
   cultures in Europe, is the main objective of CulturalBase social
   platform (CulturalBase EU project, https://culturalbase.eu, accessed on
   27 June 2022). The INVENT project (INVENT EU project,
   https://inventculture.eu/, accessed on 27 June 2022) sets out the
   identification of the social and cultural prerequisites in order to
   achieve the key aspects of the New EU Agenda for Culture. CHIEF project
   (Chief Project‚ÄîCultural Heritage and Identities of Europe‚Äôs Future,
   https://cordis.europa.eu/project/id/770464, accessed on 27 June 2022 is
   also concerned about the EU agenda related to cultural heritage and
   identity. Understanding the new environment in which creative and
   cultural industries will work, and how the spread of the Internet and
   digital technologies will impact this industry is the main focus of
   inDICEs (inDICEs EU Project‚Äîhttps://indices-culture.eu/, accessed on 27
   June 2022). Empowering policy-makers and decision-makers in these
   sectors is a main purpose.
   UNCHARTED (UNCHARTED EU Project‚ÄîUnderstanding, Capturing and Fostering
   the Societal Value of Culture, https://uncharted-culture.eu/, accessed
   on 27 June 2022) aims to identify, contextualize, understand, measure,
   and analyse the emergence and conformation of the values of culture
   from an interdisciplinary, collaborative, and pluralistic perspective.
   SPICE project aims to promote citizen curation of cultural heritage by
   providing a set of state-of-the-art tools so that people can share
   their own interpretations of culture and engage with a diverse range of
   perspectives [97]. CultureLabs investigates and proposes the use of
   digital services and tools for facilitating the access to Cultural
   Heritage through tailor-made novel experiences, creative reuse,
   enrichment, and co-creation [98]. CREARCH is a project the intends to
   show to the public the development and building of shared values and
   common heritage as a result of trading or migrations within Europe. It
   is based on digital storytelling based on visual, digital, and
   transmedia performances [99]. Advanced methods in cultural heritage
   digitization is the scope of the VAST project. It achieves that with
   the provision of methods, techniques, and tools in order to support
   collaboration in studying, to enable annotation in digitization
   procedures and to examine significant moments of European
   culture/history [100]. The projects mentioned are only some of the
   numerous projects related to arts, culture, cultural heritage, and
   their connection to cultural informatics or technology in general.
   Table 1 has a collection of all the aforementioned projects followed by
   their main focus.

2.8. Big Data and Cultural Heritage

   The new ‚Äútrends‚Äù in technology usually affect the research branches
   that are attached to it, and so, cultural heritage is examined from the
   perspective of big data. Big data usually derive from social media,
   online gaming, data lakes, logs, or frameworks that either generate or
   use large portions of data. For example, the authors in [101], examine
   cultural recommender systems in order to enhance user profiling.
   Talking of (user profiling), the tender on social media is a culture
   that includes user personas. The authors in [102] analyse how the data
   from the medium itself can possibly help upon building on this cultural
   trend of personas. Another interesting sector of culture and cultural
   heritage is games. The authors in [103] explain an algorithm for user
   clustering in cultural games. Intangible cultural heritage and the
   analysis on social media is the main theme of [104]. Specifically, the
   authors analyse the Transmission of the Feminist Intangible Cultural
   Heritage on Twitter. The perspective of multi-faceted analytics in the
   cultural heritage domain is researched in [105]. The authors present a
   data lake that offers both fundamental and advanced user and
   data/knowledge management functionality for big cultural data
   management.
   However, one should think, why is big data examined as a different
   perspective. It is in fact the way that technology emerged and the
   interconnection of technology with humanities in this case brings to
   light huge amounts of data and their usage. Therefore, technologically
   we live in the era of big data, but theoretical sciences (e.g.,
   cultural sociology) generate theories without technical background. A
   connection between the interdisciplinary field of both is thoroughly
   described by Bail [106]. In his research work, he tries to narrow the
   gap between theoretical sciences and technological advances, both
   related to data. He applies big data algorithms in order to extract
   information based on cultural sociology theories but concludes to big
   challenges, which can be summed up by the lack of metadata.
   Many recent works try to tackle problems related to culture, cultural
   heritage, and cultural informatics from the perspective of big data
   [107,108,109,110,111,112,113]. The real question is why issues that
   keep existing in cultural informatics for years, are now being
   investigated from this perspective. The answer is quite simple. Like
   when the ‚ÄúInternet‚Äù offered a novel approach and paradigm shift to the
   museums presence, the same change is happening today with the trending
   term ‚ÄúBig Data‚Äù. People, worldwide, are directly connected to each
   other using the Internet, while the ability of them to be both
   consumers and producers of data gives birth to the term Big Data. The
   museums and cultural institutions should be present in this shift,
   either by applying algorithms and technological advances related to big
   data or by becoming part of the big data stream. It is inevitable that
   the role of social media in this change is significant.

2.9. The Role of Social Media

   As we may observe, the advances of technology towards the role of data
   and their value affect directly fields like culture. In fact, if we dig
   deeper, we will realize that it was the social media that forced this
   change, this paradigm shift. However, what do social media have to do
   with culture. Prensky is the one that mentioned the terms digital
   natives vs digital immigrants in order to separate the generations of
   people who were born with technology in their hands versus people that
   faced technology sometime in their lives [114]. Despite the fact that
   Prensky mentioned the term considering the educational system, it is
   the part of technology that has to do with our everyday culture that
   leads the way. It all comes down to social media and how people react,
   discuss, share, behave, and express their inner culture, digital
   religion, economy, and culture. Understanding culture in social media,
   popular and celebrity culture, participatory culture, creator culture
   [115,116,117,118,119,120] are only some of the different angles from
   which to explore the influence of social media on people. What has
   changed with social media is not only that people have turned into
   prosumers on the web, but they also have the feeling of knowledge
   sharing that can turn everyone into an ‚Äúinfluencer‚Äù with ‚Äúfollowers‚Äù;
   of course, this feeling alters the ‚Äúculture‚Äù of people. The
   aforementioned need to be considered when trying to analyse the future
   of culture in the online world, as the power of the medium‚Äîtransferred
   to people‚Äîcan possible guide the advances in technology.

3. The Future of Culture in the Online World

   The future of culture in the online world is a matter that has
   concerned the research community for decades. It is not an issue or a
   problem that we came up with today and have to find a solution. On the
   contrary, culture and cultural heritage management remains in the
   discussion of how we should deal with it in each era and its modern
   world. Every time, this issue has to be tackled by trying to foresee
   what is the factors that lead both the research part, the advances that
   affect the research, as well as the issues that are related to the
   audience.

3.1. The Role of the EC

   As already mentioned, a large number of European projects have been
   conducted over recent decades, having as their main topic culture,
   cultural heritage, a combination of humanities and technology, and so
   on. Actually, behind this huge funding on behalf of the EU, there is a
   strategic plan concerning culture and cultural heritage. There are two
   ways to examine the strategy of the EU towards culture. The first one
   is to directly analyse the strategic framework and the second one‚Äîthe
   indirect‚Äîis to analyse the axes of funding for cultural related
   projects for the upcoming period. As it is expected, the first one will
   be based on more generic pillars, while the second one will specialize
   on what is expected to be the future of research and innovation.
   According to the strategic framework of the EC
   (https://culture.ec.europa.eu/policies/strategic-framework-for-the-eus-
   cultural-policy (accessed on 5 June 2022)) for the period 2019‚Äì2024
   there are six political priorities that affect the key themes of
   European cultural cooperation.
     * A European Green Deal;
     * A Europe fit for the digital age;
     * An economy that works for people;
     * A stronger Europe in the world;
     * Promoting the European way of life;
     * A new push for the European democracy.

   All these political approaches for the future of Europe define the
   agenda for culture by introducing three strategic areas.
     * Social;
     * Economic;
     * External.

   These very generic areas are further analysed into work plans, coming
   to the actual vision for the needs of CH and its future. These include:
     * Sustainability in CH;
     * Cohesion and well-being;
     * Ecosystem supporting artists and professionals;
     * Gender equality;
     * International cultural relations;
     * Culture as a driver for sustainable development.

   By analysing the funding tenders of the Pillar II
   (https://ec.europa.eu/info/research-and-innovation/funding/funding-oppo
   rtunities/funding-programmes-and-open-calls/horizon-europe/cluster-2-cu
   lture-creativity-and-inclusive-society_en (accessed on 5 June 2022)) it
   is possible to recognize how these work plans will be supported and
   implemented. It is obvious that EC recognizing issues related to
   governance and democracy. As such, a proportion of funding is based on
   protection and nurturing of democracies, as well as reshaping them. The
   second part is directly related to cultural heritage and includes green
   technologies, new ways for sustainability in museums and cultural
   institutions, advanced technologies for preservation and enhancement of
   CH. Furthermore, connection and engagement with stakeholders is
   considered to be an important factor while a number of innovative
   research is based on the changing trends of technology and future. The
   latter includes support in a changing world of work and protections;
   key drivers for inequality trends; skills and early school problems;
   new technologies in education; public policies for well-being and
   sustainable development; spatial mobility; gender and social, economic,
   and cultural empowerment; and development of skills matched to needs.
   It is obvious that the EC is focusing on the problems that concern more
   and more people, not only in the EU but worldwide. The role of
   technology to achieve the aforementioned work plans should be crucial.
   Technology is the medium to resolve these issues in a more efficient
   way.
   Despite the fact that the EC strategic plan seems to be focus on people
   and communities, there is a strong need of analysis of the peoples‚Äô
   trends towards culture and technology in order to recognize which
   should be the best approach towards approaching the issues raised.

3.2. An Institutional Approach

   The European Commission leads the research based on political key
   themes and approaches. It is important to analyse the issue of culture
   and technology from an institutional approach. This approach is
   considered to be closer to the stakeholders, as well as the daily
   trends of people in the changing world. An interesting report published
   in 2016 by New Media Consortium [121] tries to predict the
   technological changes in the museum. The reality that is described
   through challenges, trends and technology developments envisages a
   future of museums that are very much related to technology. The
   challenges have to do with effective digital strategies, and
   improvement of the digital literacy of museum professionals. It is
   obvious that the report believes the strong attachment of culture to
   technology, such that professionals (mainly with a humanities
   background) need to adapt to technology. It furthermore states that
   some challenges may seem impossible to tackle, such as privacy and
   knowledge obsolescence. Finally, difficulties that are reported and
   should be taken under great consideration is the accessibility for
   disabled people and the measurement of the new technologies‚Äô impact.
   The approach is accompanied with the technology trends that could help
   improvise the challenges. These include focus on mobile (content and
   applications), personalization, and participatory experiences, as well
   as data analytics as part of the museum operations.
   All the aforementioned deal with a large amount of data within a museum
   or culture generally. However, the aforementioned also introduces
   another axis which is the universality of the ‚Äúsystem‚Äù; this related to
   cultural heritage and cultural informatics when it comes to
   people-centric approaches. Data cannot be encountered as an autonomous
   piece of information or as part of a small collection of objects.
   Nowadays, culture is universal, people are able to communicate and
   exchange information fast and universally. This is the reason the
   report focuses on long-term trends, such as collaboration between
   institutions and new roles for museum professionals. At the end of the
   day, culture belongs to people, not only the ones that are able to
   access a museum exhibition (on-site or online). The situation today is
   such that the visitor-centric model has to be re-introduced.
   In parallel, it is important to recognize what is the strategic plan of
   the universal cultural institutions. For example, the Smithsonian
   Institution
   (https://www.si.edu/sites/default/files/about/smithsonian-2022-strategi
   c-plan.pdf (accessed on 5 June 2022)) has clear goals for the future of
   culture: engage, inspire, and impact. These goals are fulfilled by
   having a digital-first strategy (mainly focused on mobile-first),
   understanding the 21st century audiences, driving visionary
   interdisciplinary research, preserving natural and cultural heritage,
   providing a more efficient administrative infrastructure, and by
   looking out-of-the-box on a global level.
   Another important institute, the Getty Institute having as its core
   mission: ‚Äú...working internationally to further the appreciation and
   preservation of the world‚Äôs cultural heritage for the enrichment and
   use of present and future generations‚Äù, has as its strategic plan to
   put the focus on:
     * Society‚Äôs role in conservation decisions;
     * Respect for diverse cultural values;
     * Research;
     * Education;
     * Exploration;
     * Sustainable solutions;
     * Communication;
     * Inclusiveness;
     * Continuous learning and renewal.

   These axes are absolutely aligned to the strategic plan of the EC, as
   well as with the report from NMC and the Smithsonian Institute. We
   should not forget to mention the two large initiatives by the
   technology giants Microsoft and Google, the first one with its
   initiative called AI for Cultural Heritage
   (https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/ai/ai-for-cultural-heritage (accessed
   on 5 June 2022)) and the second one with its platform called ‚ÄúArts and
   Culture‚Äù, launched 11 years ago, which intends to incorporate high-end
   technological advances to arts and culture in order to provide unique
   experiences to people around the globe
   (https://artsandculture.google.com/ accessed on 5 June 2022).
   It is inevitable that there is a huge turn to a model that puts humans
   in the centre. In fact, today, the audience is broader than ever,
   including the whole universe. The multi-culture of the Internet, the
   capability to be in any place in the world at any time, and sharing and
   receiving information has eliminated any barriers, physical or not,
   that could limit cultural exchange. Additionally, despite the fact that
   this sounds like an ultimate wish, in contrary it leads to devastating
   results. The speed with which information is shared and transferred is
   such that any piece of information has a very short period of life.
   This short period of life is catastrophic for any kind of culture on
   the medium. This is because it does not let people think, realize, and
   absorb any kind of information. What can be done in order to encounter
   this problem is a matter to be discussed. Firstly, the research has to
   put its focus on this issue and perform detailed interdisciplinary
   research in two axes: The first one, an horizontal axis, needs to
   examine the spread of culture across the world, while the second one, a
   vertical axis needs to focus on the locality of culture.

3.3. Horizontal Analysis

   The horizontal analysis can also be thought as an holistic analysis,
   whose scope is to examine how the culture is spread from country to
   country, how it is transformed and how it is identified. It is the
   culture of the online world, the world where information is transferred
   in high volumes and speeds, such that people are unable to observe it
   and understand it. In order to understand culture in the online world,
   there is a need to define it and analyse it. The types of culture that
   derive from the online world, usually, are expressed by each times
   trends. However, in fact, the trends are constantly changing, creating
   the belief of the ephemeral. Talking of which, it seems like a cultural
   trend of our era is to get used to the ephemeral.
   This horizontal analysis is missing from the approach and it seems to
   be a prerequisite in order to recognize the culture as a whole.

3.4. Vertical Analysis

   The vertical analysis, also known as the analysis of the natives, has
   as its scope the recognition of the connections of the fast changing
   online culture to each area‚Äôs culture of the past. Each individual
   person is defined by his or her past. On these grounds, there is a
   strong need to empower and highlight the connections of what is
   considered as modern culture to the inner culture of each individual.
   This analysis will help people understand that their roots, their own
   definition, have a part in the globalized world. In addition, it is the
   mix of cultures that helps the evolution and, as such, we need to know
   our roots and how they are connected to our present and the stimulation
   of our reflections by the objects (real or digital) that we come across
   daily.

3.5. Technology as the Key to Unlock the Future of Our Culture

   As technology advances more and more, and as the expectations of people
   become higher and higher, culture needs special attention and
   treatment. It seems that the limitations deriving from lockdown due to
   COVID-19 put pressure on cultural organizations to modernize their
   procedures in order to provide better experiences for people.
   Although 15 years ago we were introduced to the ‚Äúvirtuous circle‚Äù as
   the noble procedure that has to be followed in order to achieve
   maximization of experience using a combination of online and on-site
   tools [122], the situation today has changed significantly. What we
   believe is the future of culture on the web relies on three factors:
     * Recognize the types of culture of our era;
     * Interconnect the different cultural categories;
     * Intervene to the cultural circles in order to create a ‚Äúvirtuous
       spiral‚Äù.

   First of all, as part of every era there is a strong need to recognize
   the different types of culture. Either we are talking about ‚Äúhigh
   culture‚Äù or subculture and ‚Äútrash‚Äù, there is a need to identify the
   culture and connect it with socio-economic conditions. The new medium
   (internet) has changed the way we produce culture in speeds that is
   impossible to follow. The digital natives [114] live and create in a
   different cultural environment, while digital immigrants deny this
   change leading to a wider generation gap. The different types of
   culture synthesize our lives, either online or offline, and the sooner
   we understand it, the sooner we will decode it. In this procedure,
   technology can play an important role as most types of novel culture is
   produced digitally or at least a digital medium is used for their
   transfer and spread. Every new generation needs to segregate, usually
   carrying a culture of the past, integrating into it a new ‚Äúfeature‚Äù.
   However, in the era that we live in, it seems that there is a total
   denial and renunciation of any past type of culture, which proved to be
   catastrophic in the past. Technology is the medium to help us recognize
   and record all the new types of culture in order to understand the
   future and shape it. It is obvious that we have the underlying
   technology; the variety of the research projects‚Äô approach is the
   proof. It is also obvious that we have the willing; the strategic plans
   from the EC are clear both from a political and socio-culture
   perspective. Finally, the cultural institutions‚Äô approach.
   Secondly, it is important to recognize the monoculture of the web, the
   straight line that does not have ups and downs and does not have
   something to offer to an individual (educational, social,
   psychological, etc.). The speed of information, the constantly changing
   trends and the nihilism of everything does not enable a person to get
   accustomed to a type of culture, leading to incomplete personalities or
   personalities without any interest. In this case, we need technology to
   stand by people and create interconnections with the past. What we are
   is our roots, and how we behave is our culture. The indifferent culture
   of the online world will create indifferent generations. Technology can
   play the role of the culture carrier and connector. All kinds of
   emerging technologies, especially those with high levels of immersion,
   are a perfect example of the connection of the cutting-edge
   technological features (which produce the higher stimulation to the new
   generations) with the culture of the past. This, of course, means that
   the cultural spaces and organizations need to enter the technological
   era, produce digitized objects and tons of metadata so that technology
   can play its role. Now it becomes clear, that technology together with
   understanding all new types of culture-online included-will become a
   carrier of information in order to interconnect the future of culture
   to the past.
   Third, and most important, we believe that we live in the era of the
   ‚Äúvirtuous spiral‚Äù (Figure 1). Although the virtuous circle is a
   procedure that always leads to the same spot, it remains a
   two-dimensional shape. The Internet proved to be the medium that
   actually connected all the world in a common culture. It is the place
   to expose common roots and common paths together with the
   differentiation of the individual. Through the virtual spiral, each
   individual remains in a state of continuous acquisition of new
   incentives in order to explore cultures so that a person can shape its
   character. In fact, the ultimate goal is a multi-spiral shape with each
   spiral emerging, while, in parallel, connecting to each other in a
   never-ending shaping of the personality. The spiral includes the steps
   of:
     * Searching;
     * Growing expectations;
     * Visiting (either online or on-site, or any other form);
     * Shaping reflections;
     * Sharing of information.

   Analysing the steps, the part of sharing of information is the one
   leads to the results of searching for another, creating in this way the
   never-ending spiral. On this occasion, there is a strong need to
   understand that, despite the fact the on-site visiting of cultural
   objects may be considered as the ultimate experience, the direct
   contact with the object could not be considered as indispensable in our
   era. On the contrary, the experience can be acquired with the help of
   technology. In other cases, which are more frequent as time passes, the
   ‚Äúobject‚Äù does not exist to be exhibited in a real environment but has
   solely digital form (e.g., NFTs).
   The fourth and fifth steps reveal the importance of ‚Äúcrowdsourcing‚Äù for
   our common grounds. On this occasion, crowdsourcing stands for shaping
   and sharing. It is obvious that culture flourishes with the exchange of
   information. Although people tend to become prosumers, technology can
   provide the essential tools to record the shaping of reflections for
   every time someone has a contact with a cultural related object (online
   or offline); this is the important information that has to be shared
   across the huge network that interconnects all people, the Internet.
   The spiral closes with the fact that a person‚Äôs searches for
   information is someone else‚Äôs sharing of information.
   The role of data in the shaping of the proposed model is critical. We
   live in an era in which people are bombarded with big data deriving
   from the Internet. People are either of a state of connected (awake)
   and disconnected (sleeping), and during their connection they are
   interacting with information that is largely related to culture. In
   this notion, the amount of data that are formed, the role of the
   advances of technology, the contribution of the projects in order to
   end up in this status, reveals a strong need for a reformation of the
   way we think of a user-centric model in culture. The main condition of
   the proposed model is a united model for culture under a common
   infrastructure. Additionally, while the Internet provides the
   infrastructure, large steps are still needed by the cultural
   organizations in order to shape a universal model to confront the
   universality of culture.

4. Discussion

   The expansion of the web that lead to culture spread across the globe
   in little time changes the way we face our multi-cultural universe. In
   fact, we are entering a mixed culture world in which people are
   changing their cultural approaches very quickly and directly. The
   ‚Äúdirect‚Äù part is the desired one, but the factor of speed (fast) is
   not. On these grounds, the cultural exchanges cannot be possibly
   understood and if absorbed there is no clear evidence or awareness of
   the habits or behaviors.
   This world is shaped by the changes and advances in technology. Despite
   the fact that technology analysis leads to a large number of different
   approaches, nowadays it is obvious that everything is lead by data. We
   described the different aspects of data in cultural informatics.
   Starting from the large paradigm shift of the Internet, progressing the
   Virtual World, the analysis of data and metadata, as well as the
   digitization (i.e., the production of digital assets‚Äîdata).
   Furthermore, we discussed the algorithmic approaches and the adaption
   of the visitors, and described a number of important EU funded projects
   related to culture and technology. Finally, we described big data and
   the role of social media in the shaping of today‚Äôs culture.
   Talking about the future of culture in the ‚Äúconnected world‚Äù, we
   examined the strategic plan of the EC, as well as the approaches from
   institutions. It is obvious that all of them believe that culture must
   play an important role in the connected world. We need to redefine our
   view of people in cultural informatics and follow strategic plans that
   involve everyone as a unity and as a whole in a museum‚Äôs procedures.
   It seems that the term ‚Äúbig data‚Äù will follow several aspects of our
   lives and culture is not to be excluded. The trends to be followed
   should include a universal approach with free, open, connected data,
   collaboration between institutions and definition of new, important
   roles within the procedures of a museum.
   As per the user perspective, the universal character of our future,
   leads as to a model that keeps ‚Äúspinning‚Äù around culture; culture all
   over the world. Each one becomes the consumer of cultural experiences,
   and producer of reflections, feelings, and information for herself and
   everyone else. We believe in a novel culture approach by defining the
   spiral of culture. Technology can help us identify culture and create
   never-ending connected experiences.
   In conclusion, we believe that the sector of cultural informatics
   should put the focus on the universal, holistic, data driven,
   user-centric approach. The approach is affecting all technologies used
   to create experiences for visitors, either on-site or online. The
   ‚Äútraditional museum‚Äù remains a unique experience, but visitors demand
   multi-level interaction, and technology is the medium to achieve it.

Author Contributions

   The authors have contributed equally to this work. All authors have
   read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.

Funding

   This research received no external funding.

Conflicts of Interest

   The authors declare no conflict of interest.

Abbreviations

   The following abbreviations are used in this manuscript:
   NFT Non-fungible tokens
   CI  Cultural Informatics
   VR  Virtual Reality
   AR  Augmented Reality
   ER  Enhanced Reality
   XR  Extended Reality
   MR  Mixed Reality
   ML  Machine Learning
   AI  Artificial Intelligence
   CH  Cultural Heritage
   EU  European Union
   EC  European Commission
   NMC New Media Consortium

References

    1. Shannon, C.E. A universal Turing machine with two internal states.
       Autom. Stud. 1956, 34, 157‚Äì165. [Google Scholar]
    2. Burks, A.W.; Goldstine, H.H.; Von Neumann, J. Preliminary
       Discussion of the Logical Design of an Electronic Computer
       Instrument; Technical Report; Institute for Advanced Study:
       Princeton, NJ, USA, 1946. [Google Scholar]
    3. Chenhall, R.G. Computer use in museums today. Mus. Int. 1978, 30,
       139‚Äì145. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef]
    4. Ellin, E. An international survey of museum computer activity.
       Comput. Humanit. 1968, 3, 65‚Äì86. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef]
    5. Chenhall, R.G. Museum Cataloging in the Computer Age; American
       Association for State and Local History: Nashville, TN, USA, 1975.
       [Google Scholar]
    6. Bearman, D.; Trant, J. Interactivity comes of age: Museums and the
       World Wide Web. Mus. Int. 1999, 51, 20‚Äì24. [Google Scholar]
       [CrossRef]
    7. Cuomo, S. Technology and Culture in Greek and Roman Antiquity;
       Cambridge University Press: Cambridge, UK, 2007. [Google Scholar]
    8. Gordon, R.B.; Killick, D.J. Adaptation of technology to culture and
       environment: Bloomery iron smelting in America and Africa. Technol.
       Cult. 1993, 34, 243‚Äì270. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef]
    9. Misa, T.J. Leonardo to the Internet: Technology and Culture from
       the Renaissance to the Present; JHU Press: Baltimore, MD, USA,
       2011. [Google Scholar]
   10. Jones, P.M. Industrial Enlightenment: Science, Technology and
       Culture in Birmingham and the West Midlands, 1760‚Äì1820; Manchester
       University Press: Manchester, UK, 2017. [Google Scholar]
   11. Gallivan, M.; Srite, M. Information technology and culture:
       Identifying fragmentary and holistic perspectives of culture. Inf.
       Organ. 2005, 15, 295‚Äì338. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef]
   12. Hughes, T.P.; Hughes, T.P. Human-Built World: How to Think about
       Technology and Culture; University of Chicago Press: Chicago, IL,
       USA, 2004. [Google Scholar]
   13. Murphie, A.; Potts, J. Culture and Technology; Macmillan
       International Higher Education: London, UK, 2017. [Google Scholar]
   14. Bell, D.; Hollows, J. Science, Technology and Culture; McGraw-Hill
       Education: London, UK, 2005. [Google Scholar]
   15. Wilcock, J.D. A General Survey of Computer Applications in
       Archaeology. Computer Applications in Archaeology, Science and
       Archaeology, no. 9. 1973. Available online:
       https://bibliographie.uni-tuebingen.de/xmlui/bitstream/handle/10900
       /61764/02_Wilcock_CAA_1973.pdf?sequence=2 (accessed on 27 June
       2022).
   16. Bierbaum, E.G. Records and access: Museum registration and library
       cataloging. Cat. Classif. Q. 1988, 9, 97‚Äì111. [Google Scholar]
       [CrossRef]
   17. Chenhall, R.G.; Blackaby, J.R.; Greeno, P. The Revised Nomenclature
       for Museum Cataloging: A Revised and Expanded Version of Robert G.
       Chenhal l‚Äôs System for Classifying Man-Made Objects; AltaMira
       Press: Lanham, MD, USA, 1989. [Google Scholar]
   18. Bourcier, P.; Rogers, R. Nomenclature 3.0 for Museum Cataloging;
       Rowman & Littlefield: Lanham, MD, USA, 2010. [Google Scholar]
   19. Stam, D.C. The quest for a code, or a brief history of the
       computerized cataloging of art objects. Art Doc. J. Art Libr. Soc.
       N. Am. 1989, 8, 7‚Äì15. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef]
   20. Bearman, D. Interactive and Hypermedia in Museums. In Proceedings
       of the ICHIM‚ÄîInternational Conference on Hypermedia & Interactivity
       in Museums, Pittsburgh, PA, USA, 14‚Äì16 October 1991; pp. 1‚Äì6.
       [Google Scholar]
   21. Bearman, D. Museum strategies for success on the Internet. In
       Proceedings of the Conference on Museums and the Internet, London,
       UK, 10 May 1995; Volume 10. [Google Scholar]
   22. Donovan, K. The best of intentions: Public access, the Web and the
       evolution of museum automation. In Proceedings of the Museums and
       the Web, Los Angeles, CA, USA, 16‚Äì19 March 1997; Volume 97, pp.
       127‚Äì134. [Google Scholar]
   23. Taylor, J.H.; Ryan, J. Museums and Galleries on the Internet.
       Internet Res. 1995, 5, 80‚Äì88. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef]
   24. Schweibenz, W. The ‚ÄúVirtual Museum‚Äù: New Perspectives For Museums
       to Present Objects and Information Using the Internet as a
       Knowledge Base and Communication System. Isi 1998, 34, 185‚Äì200.
       [Google Scholar]
   25. Tsichritzis, D.; Gibbs, S.J. Virtual Museums and Virtual Realities.
       In Proceedings of the ICHIM‚ÄîInternational Conference on Hypermedia
       & Interactivity in Museums, Pittsburgh, PA, USA, 14‚Äì16 October
       1991; pp. 17‚Äì25. [Google Scholar]
   26. Schweibenz, W. Virtual museums. Dev. Virtual Mus. ICOM News Mag.
       2004, 3, 3. [Google Scholar]
   27. Lepouras, G.; Vassilakis, C. Virtual museums for all: Employing
       game technology for edutainment. Virtual Real. 2004, 8, 96‚Äì106.
       [Google Scholar] [CrossRef]
   28. Roussou, M. Immersive interactive virtual reality in the museum. In
       Proceedings of the TiLE (Trends in Leisure Entertainment), London,
       UK, May 2001; Available online:
       https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Maria-Roussou-2/publication/28
       61971_Immersive_Interactive_Virtual_Reality_in_the_Museum/links/0c9
       605192924ee109d000000/Immersive-Interactive-Virtual-Reality-in-the-
       Museum.pdf (accessed on 27 June 2022).
   29. Hirose, M. Virtual reality technology and museum exhibit. Int. J.
       Virtual Real. 2006, 5, 31‚Äì36. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef]
   30. Walczak, K.; Cellary, W.; White, M. Virtual museum exbibitions.
       Computer 2006, 39, 93‚Äì95. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef]
   31. Wojciechowski, R.; Walczak, K.; White, M.; Cellary, W. Building
       virtual and augmented reality museum exhibitions. In Proceedings of
       the Ninth International Conference on 3D Web Technology, Monterey,
       CA, USA, 5‚Äì8 April 2004; pp. 135‚Äì144. [Google Scholar]
   32. Pletinckx, D.; Callebaut, D.; Killebrew, A.E.; Silberman, N.A.
       Virtual-reality heritage presentation at Ename. IEEE MultiMedia
       2000, 7, 45‚Äì48. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef]
   33. Miyashita, T.; Meier, P.; Tachikawa, T.; Orlic, S.; Eble, T.;
       Scholz, V.; Gapel, A.; Gerl, O.; Arnaudov, S.; Lieberknecht, S. An
       augmented reality museum guide. In Proceedings of the 2008 7th
       IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Mixed and Augmented Reality,
       Cambridge, UK, 15‚Äì18 September 2008; pp. 103‚Äì106. [Google Scholar]
   34. Bonis, B.; Stamos, J.; Vosinakis, S.; Andreou, I.; Panayiotopoulos,
       T. A platform for virtual museums with personalized content.
       Multimed. Tools Appl. 2009, 42, 139‚Äì159. [Google Scholar]
       [CrossRef]
   35. Styliani, S.; Fotis, L.; Kostas, K.; Petros, P. Virtual museums, a
       survey and some issues for consideration. J. Cult. Herit. 2009, 10,
       520‚Äì528. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef]
   36. Lee, H.; Jung, T.H.; tom Dieck, M.C.; Chung, N. Experiencing
       immersive virtual reality in museums. Inf. Manag. 2020, 57, 103229.
       [Google Scholar] [CrossRef]
   37. Shehade, M.; Stylianou-Lambert, T. Virtual reality in museums:
       Exploring the experiences of museum professionals. Appl. Sci. 2020,
       10, 4031. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef]
   38. Carrozzino, M.; Bergamasco, M. Beyond virtual museums: Experiencing
       immersive virtual reality in real museums. J. Cult. Herit. 2010,
       11, 452‚Äì458. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef]
   39. Parker, E.; Saker, M. Art museums and the incorporation of virtual
       reality: Examining the impact of VR on spatial and social norms.
       Convergence 2020, 26, 1159‚Äì1173. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef]
   40. Barbieri, L.; Bruno, F.; Muzzupappa, M. User-centered design of a
       virtual reality exhibit for archaeological museums. Int. J.
       Interact. Des. Manuf. (IJIDeM) 2018, 12, 561‚Äì571. [Google Scholar]
       [CrossRef]
   41. Keil, J.; Pujol, L.; Roussou, M.; Engelke, T.; Schmitt, M.;
       Bockholt, U.; Eleftheratou, S. A digital look at physical museum
       exhibits: Designing personalized stories with handheld Augmented
       Reality in museums. In Proceedings of the 2013 Digital Heritage
       International Congress (DigitalHeritage), Marseille, France, 28
       October‚Äì1 November 2013; Volume 2, pp. 685‚Äì688. [Google Scholar]
   42. Doerr, M. The CIDOC conceptual reference module: An ontological
       approach to semantic interoperability of metadata. AI Mag. 2003,
       24, 75. [Google Scholar]
   43. Baca, M.; Coburn, E.; Hubbard, S. Metadata and museum information.
       In Museum Informatics; Routledge: London, UK, 2012; pp. 123‚Äì144.
       [Google Scholar]
   44. Purday, J. Think culture: Europeana. eu from concept to
       construction. Bibliothek 2009, 33, 170‚Äì180. [Google Scholar]
       [CrossRef]
   45. Nelson, G.; Ellis, S. The history and impact of digitization and
       digital data mobilization on biodiversity research. Philos. Trans.
       R. Soc. B 2019, 374, 20170391. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef][Green
       Version]
   46. Mannoni, B. Bringing museums online. Commun. ACM 1996, 39, 100‚Äì105.
       [Google Scholar] [CrossRef]
   47. Liu, Y.Q. Best practices, standards and techniques for digitizing
       library materials: A snapshot of library digitization practices in
       the USA. Online Inf. Rev. 2004, 28, 338‚Äì345. [Google Scholar]
   48. Cotter, G.A. The digitization of museum specimens: Much is at stake
       as museums worldwide work to put their collections and data online.
       Scientist 2004, 18, 8‚Äì9. [Google Scholar]
   49. Arias, P.; Herraez, J.; Lorenzo, H.; Ordonez, C. Control of
       structural problems in cultural heritage monuments using
       close-range photogrammetry and computer methods. Comput. Struct.
       2005, 83, 1754‚Äì1766. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef]
   50. Yastikli, N. Documentation of cultural heritage using digital
       photogrammetry and laser scanning. J. Cult. Herit. 2007, 8,
       423‚Äì427. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef]
   51. Grussenmeyer, P.; Landes, T.; Voegtle, T.; Ringle, K. Comparison
       methods of terrestrial laser scanning, photogrammetry and
       tacheometry data for recording of cultural heritage buildings. Int.
       Arch. Photogramm. Remote Sens. Spat. Inf. Sci. 2008, 37, 213‚Äì218.
       [Google Scholar]
   52. Tucci, G.; Cini, D.; Nobile, A. Effective 3D digitization of
       archaeological artifacts for interactive virtual museum. Int. Arch.
       Photogramm. Remote Sens. Spat. Inf. Sci. 2011, 38, 413‚Äì420. [Google
       Scholar] [CrossRef][Green Version]
   53. Gonizzi Barsanti, S. 3D digitization of museum content within the
       3dicons project. ISPRS Ann. Photogramm. Remote Sens. Spat. Inf.
       Sci. 2013, II-5/W1, 151‚Äì156. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef][Green
       Version]
   54. Mathys, A.; Brecko, J.; Semal, P. Comparing 3D digitizing
       technologies: What are the differences? In Proceedings of the 2013
       Digital Heritage International Congress (DigitalHeritage),
       Marseille, France, 28 October‚Äì1 November 2013; Volume 1, pp.
       201‚Äì204. [Google Scholar]
   55. Sportun, S. The future landscape of 3D in museums. In The
       Multisensory Museum: Cross-Disciplinary Perspectives on Touch,
       Sound, Smell, Memory, and Space; Rowman & Littlefield: Lanham, MD,
       USA, 2014; pp. 331‚Äì340. [Google Scholar]
   56. Guidi, G.; Gonizzi Barsanti, S.; Micoli, L.L.; Russo, M. Massive 3D
       digitization of museum contents. In Built Heritage: Monitoring
       Conservation Management; Springer: Cham, Switzerland, 2015; pp.
       335‚Äì346. [Google Scholar]
   57. Singh, G. CultLab3D: Digitizing cultural heritage. IEEE Comput.
       Graph. Appl. 2014, 34, 4‚Äì5. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef]
   58. Tommasi, C.; Achille, C.; Fassi, F. From point cloud to BIM: A
       modelling challange in the cultural heritage field. Int. Arch.
       Photogramm. Remote. Sens. Spat. Inf. Sci. 2016, 41, 429‚Äì436.
       [Google Scholar] [CrossRef][Green Version]
   59. Rahaman, H.; Champion, E. To 3D or not 3D: Choosing a
       photogrammetry workflow for cultural heritage groups. Heritage
       2019, 2, 1835‚Äì1851. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef][Green Version]
   60. Grilli, E.; Farella, E.; Torresani, A.; Remondino, F. Geometric
       feature analysis for the classification of cultural heritage point
       clouds. In Proceedings of the 27th CIPA International Symposium
       ‚ÄúDocumenting the past for a better future‚Äù, √Åvila, Spain, 1‚Äì5
       September 2019; Volume 42, pp. 541‚Äì548. [Google Scholar]
   61. Pierdicca, R.; Paolanti, M.; Matrone, F.; Martini, M.; Morbidoni,
       C.; Malinverni, E.S.; Frontoni, E.; Lingua, A.M. Point cloud
       semantic segmentation using a deep learning framework for cultural
       heritage. Remote Sens. 2020, 12, 1005. [Google Scholar]
       [CrossRef][Green Version]
   62. Bombini, A.; Anderlini, L.; Giaocmini, F.; Ruberto, C.; Taccetti,
       F. The AIRES-CH Project: Artificial Intelligence for Digital
       REStoration of Cultural Heritages Using Nuclear Imaging and
       Multidimensional Adversarial Neural Networks. In Proceedings of the
       International Conference on Image Analysis and Processing, Lecce,
       Italy, 23‚Äì27 May 2022; pp. 685‚Äì700. [Google Scholar]
   63. Balletti, C.; Ballarin, M.; Guerra, F. 3D printing: State of the
       art and future perspectives. J. Cult. Herit. 2017, 26, 172‚Äì182.
       [Google Scholar] [CrossRef]
   64. Ballarin, M.; Balletti, C.; Vernier, P. Replicas in cultural
       heritage: 3D printing and the museum experience. Int. Arch.
       Photogramm. Remote Sens. Spat. Inf. Sci. 2018, 42, 55‚Äì62. [Google
       Scholar] [CrossRef][Green Version]
   65. Muenster, S. Digital 3D Technologies for Humanities Research and
       Education: An Overview. Appl. Sci. 2022, 12, 2426. [Google Scholar]
       [CrossRef]
   66. Milone, K.L. Dithering over digitization: International copyright
       and licensing agreements between museums, artists, and new media
       publishers. Ind. Int. Comp. Law Rev. 1994, 5, 393. [Google Scholar]
       [CrossRef]
   67. Appel, S. Copyright, digitization of images, and art museums:
       Cyberspace and other new frontiers. UCLA Entertain. Law Rev. 1998,
       6, 149. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef]
   68. Appel, S.E. The copyright wars at the digital frontier: Which side
       are art museums on? J. Arts Manag. Law Soc. 1999, 29, 205‚Äì238.
       [Google Scholar] [CrossRef]
   69. Pessach, G. Museums, digitization and copyright law: Taking stock
       and looking ahead. J. Int. Media Entertain. Law 2006, 1, 253.
       [Google Scholar]
   70. Garvin, K.M. Reclaiming Our Domain: Digitization of Museum
       Collections and Copyright Overreach. IDEA 2018, 59, 455. [Google
       Scholar]
   71. Kosmopoulos, D.; Styliaras, G. A survey on developing personalized
       content services in museums. Pervasive Mob. Comput. 2018, 47,
       54‚Äì77. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef]
   72. Kontogiannis, S.; Kokkonis, G.; Kazanidis, I.; Dossis, M.;
       Valsamidis, S. Cultural IoT Framework Focusing on Interactive and
       Personalized Museum Sightseeing. In Towards Cognitive IoT Networks;
       Springer: Cham, Switzerland, 2020; pp. 151‚Äì181. [Google Scholar]
   73. Thakur, N.; Han, C.Y. Indoor Localization for Personalized Ambient
       Assisted Living of Multiple Users in Multi-Floor Smart
       Environments. Big Data Cogn. Comput. 2021, 5, 42. [Google Scholar]
       [CrossRef]
   74. Vassilakis, C.; Antoniou, A.; Lepouras, G.; Poulopoulos, V.;
       Wallace, M.; Bampatzia, S.; Bourlakos, I. Stimulation of reflection
       and discussion in museum visits through the use of social media.
       Soc. Netw. Anal. Min. 2017, 7, 40. [Google Scholar]
       [CrossRef][Green Version]
   75. Antoniou, A.; Lepouras, G. Modeling visitors‚Äô profiles: A study to
       investigate adaptation aspects for museum learning technologies. J.
       Comput. Cult. Herit. (JOCCH) 2010, 3, 1‚Äì19. [Google Scholar]
       [CrossRef]
   76. Naudet, Y.; Lykourentzou, I.; Tobias, E.; Antoniou, A.; Rompa, J.;
       Lepouras, G. Gaming and cognitive profiles for recommendations in
       museums. In Proceedings of the 2013 8th International Workshop on
       Semantic and Social Media Adaptation and Personalization, Bayonne,
       France, 12‚Äì13 December 2013; pp. 67‚Äì72. [Google Scholar]
   77. Bowen, J.P.; Filippini-Fantoni, S. Personalization and the web from
       a museum perspective. In Museums and the Web 2004; Archives &
       Museum Informatics: Toronto, ON, Canada, 2004; Volume 4. [Google
       Scholar]
   78. Marty, P.F. Museum informatics. In Encyclopedia of Library and
       Information Sciences; CRC Press: Boca Raton, FL, USA, 2010; pp.
       3717‚Äì3725. [Google Scholar]
   79. Aroyo, L.; Brussee, R.; Rutledge, L.; Gorgels, P.; Stash, N.; Wang,
       Y. Personalized Museum Experience: The Rijksmuseum Use Case;
       Archives & Museum Informatics: Toronto, ON, Canada, 2007. [Google
       Scholar]
   80. Oberlander, J.; Karakatsiotis, G.; Isard, A.; Androutsopoulos, I.l.
       Building an adaptive museum gallery in Second Life. In Museums and
       the Web 2007: Proceedings; Archives & Museum Informatics: Toronto,
       ON, Canada, 2008. [Google Scholar]
   81. Kuflik, T.; Kay, J.; Kummerfeld, B. Lifelong personalized museum
       experiences. In Proceedings of the Pervasive User Modeling and
       Personalization (PUMP‚Äô10), Big Island, HI, USA, 20 June 2010; pp.
       9‚Äì16. [Google Scholar]
   82. Roussou, M.; Katifori, A. Flow, staging, wayfinding,
       personalization: Evaluating user experience with mobile museum
       narratives. Multimodal Technol. Interact. 2018, 2, 32. [Google
       Scholar] [CrossRef][Green Version]
   83. Christodoulou, Y.; Konstantakis, M.; Moraitou, E.; Aliprantis, J.;
       Caridakis, G. Personalized Cultural Tours using Semantic Web
       Technologies. In Proceedings of the SMAP2019 Workshop, Larnaca,
       Cyprus, 9‚Äì10 June 2019; pp. 9‚Äì10. [Google Scholar]
   84. Komianos, V.; Oikonomou, K. Adaptive exhibition topologies for
       personalized virtual museums. IOP Conf. Ser. Mater. Sci. Eng. 2018,
       364, 012011. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef][Green Version]
   85. Fiorucci, M.; Khoroshiltseva, M.; Pontil, M.; Traviglia, A.; Del
       Bue, A.; James, S. Machine learning for cultural heritage: A
       survey. Pattern Recognit. Lett. 2020, 133, 102‚Äì108. [Google
       Scholar] [CrossRef]
   86. Buddenbohm, S.; de Jong, M.; Minel, J.L.; Moranville, Y. Find
       research data repositories for the humanities-the data deposit
       recommendation service. Int. J. Digit. Humanit. 2021, 1, 343‚Äì362.
       [Google Scholar] [CrossRef]
   87. Buddenbohm, S.; Eckart, T. Merging Subject-Specific Searches of
       CLARIN and DARIAH in CLARIAH-DE: Challenges of Technical
       Integration; Funded by the German Federal Ministry of Education and
       Research; Funding Reference Number 01UG1910 A to I; German Federal
       Ministry of Education and Research: Bonn, Germany, 2021. [CrossRef]
   88. Krauwer, S.; Hinrichs, E. The CLARIN research infrastructure:
       Resources and tools for e-humanities scholars. In Proceedings of
       the Ninth International Conference on Language Resources and
       Evaluation (LREC-2014), Reykjavik, Iceland, 26‚Äì31 May 2014; pp.
       1525‚Äì1531. [Google Scholar]
   89. Bl√ºmm, M.; Schmunk, S. Digital Research Infrastructures: DARIAH. In
       3D Research Challenges in Cultural Heritage II; Springer: Cham,
       Switzerland, 2016; pp. 62‚Äì73. [Google Scholar]
   90. Antoniou, A.; Lopez-Nores, M.; Yannick, N.; Solano, G.; Jones, C.;
       Vassilakaki, E.; Padfield, J. Empowering reuse of digital cultural
       heritage in context-aware crosscuts of European history. In
       Proceedings of the Workshop on Cultural Informatics co-located with
       the EUROMED International Conference on Digital Heritage 2018
       (EUROMED 2018), Nicosia, Cyprus, 3 November 2018; pp. 1‚Äì10. [Google
       Scholar]
   91. Poulopoulos, V.; Vassilakis, C.; Antoniou, A.; Lepouras, G.;
       Theodoropoulos, A.; Wallace, M. The Personality of the Influencers,
       the Characteristics of Qualitative Discussions and Their Analysis
       for Recommendations to Cultural Institutions. Heritage 2018, 1,
       239‚Äì253. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef][Green Version]
   92. Katifori, A.; Roussou, M.; Perry, S.; Drettakis, G.; Vizcay, S.;
       Philip, J. The EMOTIVE Project-Emotive Virtual Cultural Experiences
       through Personalized Storytelling. In Proceedings of the
       CIRA@EuroMed, Nicosia, Cyprus, 3 November 2018; pp. 11‚Äì20. [Google
       Scholar]
   93. Lim, V.; Frangakis, N.; Tanco, L.M.; Picinali, L. PLUGGY: A
       pluggable social platform for cultural heritage awareness and
       participation. In Advances in Digital Cultural Heritage; Springer:
       Cham, Switzerland, 2018; pp. 117‚Äì129. [Google Scholar]
   94. Ioannides, M.; Davies, R. ViMM-Virtual Multimodal Museum: A
       manifesto and roadmap for Europe‚Äôs digital cultural heritage. In
       Proceedings of the 2018 International Conference on Intelligent
       Systems (IS), Funchal, Portugal, 25‚Äì27 September 2018; pp. 343‚Äì350.
       [Google Scholar]
   95. Anichini, F.; Gattiglia, G. Big archaeological data. The ArchAIDE
       project approach. In Data Way to Science; Associazione Consorzio
       GARR: Rome, Italy, 2018; pp. 22‚Äì25. [Google Scholar]
   96. Sabiescu, A.; Charatzopoulou, K. The museum as ecosystem and
       museums in learning ecosystems. In Museum Experience Design;
       Springer: Cham, Switzerland, 2018; pp. 325‚Äì345. [Google Scholar]
   97. Daga, E.; Asprino, L.; Damiano, R.; Daquino, M.; Agudo, B.D.;
       Gangemi, A.; Kuflik, T.; Lieto, A.; Maguire, M.; Marras, A.M.; et
       al. Integrating citizen experiences in cultural heritage archives:
       Requirements, state of the art, and challenges. ACM J. Comput.
       Cult. Herit. (JOCCH) 2022, 15, 1‚Äì35. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef]
   98. Kaldeli, E.; Tsakou, G.; Giglitto, D.; Cesaroni, F.; Tzouvaras, V.;
       Stamou, G. CultureLabs: Cultural heritage and digital technology at
       the service of social innovation. In Proceedings of the CEUR
       Workshop Proceedings, Larnaca, Cyprus, 9 June 2019; Volume 2412, p.
       9. [Google Scholar]
   99. Xepapadakou, A.; Papalexiou, E. Creating a Contemporary Performing
       Arts Archive. In Proceedings of the Archives‚ÄîBorders, Identities,
       Reflections: International Conference, Online, 25‚Äì26 March 2021.
       [Google Scholar]
   100. Castano, S.; Ferrara, A.; Montanelli, S.; Periti, F. From digital
       to computational humanities: The VAST project vision. In
       Proceedings of the Italian Symposium on Advanced Database Systems,
       Pizzo Calabro, Italy, 5‚Äì9 September 2021; Volume 2994, pp. 24‚Äì35.
       [Google Scholar]
   101. Konstantakis, M.; Alexandridis, G.; Caridakis, G. A personalized
       heritage-oriented recommender system based on extended cultural
       tourist typologies. Big Data Cogn. Comput. 2020, 4, 12. [Google
       Scholar] [CrossRef]
   102. Spiliotopoulos, D.; Margaris, D.; Vassilakis, C. Data-assisted
       persona construction using social media data. Big Data Cogn.
       Comput. 2020, 4, 21. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef]
   103. Drakopoulos, G.; Voutos, Y.; Mylonas, P. Annotation-assisted
       clustering of player profiles in cultural games: A case for tensor
       analytics in Julia. Big Data Cogn. Comput. 2020, 4, 39. [Google
       Scholar] [CrossRef]
   104. Morales-i Gras, J.; Orbegozo-Terradillos, J.; Larrondo-Ureta, A.;
       Pe√±a-Fern√°ndez, S. Networks and Stories. Analyzing the Transmission
       of the Feminist Intangible Cultural Heritage on Twitter. Big Data
       Cogn. Comput. 2021, 5, 69. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef]
   105. Deligiannis, K.; Raftopoulou, P.; Tryfonopoulos, C.; Platis, N.;
       Vassilakis, C. Hydria: An online data lake for multi-faceted
       analytics in the cultural heritage domain. Big Data Cogn. Comput.
       2020, 4, 7. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef][Green Version]
   106. Bail, C.A. The cultural environment: Measuring culture with big
       data. Theory Soc. 2014, 43, 465‚Äì482. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef]
   107. Amato, F.; Moscato, V.; Picariello, A.; Colace, F.; Santo, M.D.;
       Schreiber, F.A.; Tanca, L. Big data meets digital cultural
       heritage: Design and implementation of scrabs, a smart
       context-aware browsing assistant for cultural environments. J.
       Comput. Cult. Herit. 2017, 10, 1‚Äì23. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef]
   108. Shi, M.; Zhu, W.; Yang, H.; Li, C. Applying semantic web and big
       data techniques to construct a balance model referring to
       stakeholders of tourism intangible cultural heritage. Int. J.
       Comput. Appl. Technol. 2016, 54, 192‚Äì200. [Google Scholar]
       [CrossRef]
   109. Li, P.; Shi, Z.; Ding, Y.; Zhao, L.; Ma, Z.; Xiao, H.; Li, H.
       Analysis of the Temporal and Spatial Characteristics of Material
       Cultural Heritage Driven by Big Data‚ÄîTake Museum Relics as an
       Example. Information 2021, 12, 153. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef]
   110. Zhao, M.; Wu, X.; Liao, H.T.; Liu, Y. Exploring research fronts
       and topics of Big Data and Artificial Intelligence application for
       cultural heritage and museum research. IOP Conf. Ser. Mater. Sci.
       Eng. 2020, 806, 012036. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef]
   111. Levin, N.; Ali, S.; Crandall, D.; Kark, S. World Heritage in
       danger: Big data and remote sensing can help protect sites in
       conflict zones. Glob. Environ. Change 2019, 55, 97‚Äì104. [Google
       Scholar] [CrossRef]
   112. Alexakis, E.; Kapassa, E.; Touloupou, M.; Kyriazis, D.;
       Georgopoulos, A.; Moropoulou, A. Innovative methodology for
       personalized 3D representation and big data management in cultural
       heritage. In Proceedings of the International Conference on
       Transdisciplinary Multispectral Modeling and Cooperation for the
       Preservation of Cultural Heritage, Athens, Greece, 10‚Äì13 October
       2018; pp. 69‚Äì77. [Google Scholar]
   113. Dimoulas, C.A. Cultural Heritage Storytelling, Engagement and
       Management in the Era of Big Data and the Semantic Web.
       Sustainability 2022, 14, 812. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef]
   114. Prensky, M. Digital natives, digital immigrants part 2: Do they
       really think differently? On Horizon 2001, 9, 1‚Äì6. [Google Scholar]
       [CrossRef]
   115. Cheong, P.H.; Fischer-Nielsen, P.; Gelfgren, S.; Ess, C. Digital
       Religion, Social Media and Culture: Perspectives, Practices, and
       Futures; Peter Lang: New York, NY, USA, 2012. [Google Scholar]
   116. Fuchs, C. Culture and Economy in the Age of Social Media;
       Routledge: London, UK, 2015. [Google Scholar]
   117. Kozinets, R.V.; Dolbec, P.Y.; Earley, A. Netnographic analysis:
       Understanding culture through social media data. SAGE Handbook of
       Qualitative Data Analysis; SAGE Publications Ltd.: New York, NY,
       USA, 2014; pp. 262‚Äì275. [Google Scholar]
   118. Burns, K.S. Celeb 2.0: How Social Media Foster Our Fascination
       with Popular Culture; ABC-CLIO: Santa Barbara, CA, USA, 2009.
       [Google Scholar]
   119. Giaccardi, E. Heritage and Social Media: Understanding Heritage in
       a Participatory Culture; Routledge: London, UK, 2012. [Google
       Scholar]
   120. Baym, N.K. Creator Culture: An Introduction to Global Social Media
       Entertainment; NYU Press: New York, NY, USA, 2021. [Google Scholar]
   121. Freeman, A.; Adams Becker, S.; Cummins, M.; McKelroy, E.;
       Giesinger, C.; Yuhnke, B. NMC Horizon Report: 2016 Museum Edition;
       The New Media Consortium: Austin, TX, USA, 2016. [Google Scholar]
   122. Barry, A. Creating a virtuous circle between a museum‚Äôs on-line
       and physical spaces. In Proceedings of the Museums and the Web,
       Albuquerque, NM, USA, 22‚Äì25 March 2006; pp. 22‚Äì25. [Google Scholar]

   Bdcc 06 00073 g001 550
   Figure 1. Virtuous spiral.
   Figure 1. Virtuous spiral.
   Bdcc 06 00073 g001
   Table
   Table 1. List of projects related to culture.
   Table 1. List of projects related to culture.
     Project    Start Year                   Focus
      ARCHES       2016                Inclusive Culture
    CrossCult      2016              Reflective Societies
    Gravitate      2015                  3D Modelling
     EMOTIVE       2016                 Virtual Museum
      PLUGGY       2016                 Social Platform
       ViMM        2016                 Virtual Museum
     ArchAIDE      2016        Technology to Support Archaeology
   CulturalBase    2015                 Social Platform
      Riches       2013    Engage with heritage in the digital world
      INVENT       2020           Inclusive Cultural Policies
      CHIEF        2018                Cultural Literacy
    UNCHARTED      2020            Societal Value of Culture
      inDICE       2020             Impact of Digitization
      SPICE        2020          Collaborative Approach to CH
   CultureLabs     2018            Participatory Approaches
     CREARCH       2019          Archives through storytelling
       VAST        2020     Digital Assets & Advanced Digitization

   Publisher‚Äôs Note: MDPI stays neutral with regard to jurisdictional
   claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.

   ¬© 2022 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. This article
   is an open access article distributed under the terms and conditions of
   the Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY) license
   (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

Share and Cite

   MDPI and ACS Style

   Poulopoulos, V.; Wallace, M. Digital Technologies and the Role of Data
   in Cultural Heritage: The Past, the Present, and the Future. Big Data
   Cogn. Comput. 2022, 6, 73. https://doi.org/10.3390/bdcc6030073
   AMA Style

   Poulopoulos V, Wallace M. Digital Technologies and the Role of Data in
   Cultural Heritage: The Past, the Present, and the Future. Big Data and
   Cognitive Computing. 2022; 6(3):73. https://doi.org/10.3390/bdcc6030073
   Chicago/Turabian Style

   Poulopoulos, Vassilis, and Manolis Wallace. 2022. "Digital Technologies
   and the Role of Data in Cultural Heritage: The Past, the Present, and
   the Future" Big Data and Cognitive Computing 6, no. 3: 73.
   https://doi.org/10.3390/bdcc6030073
   Find Other Styles
   ____________________

Article Metrics

   No
   No

Article Access Statistics

   For more information on the journal statistics, click here.
   Multiple requests from the same IP address are counted as one view.
   Zoom | Orient | As Lines | As Sticks | As Cartoon | As Surface |
   Previous Scene | Next Scene

Cite

   Export citation file: BibTeX | EndNote | RIS
   MDPI and ACS Style

   Poulopoulos, V.; Wallace, M. Digital Technologies and the Role of Data
   in Cultural Heritage: The Past, the Present, and the Future. Big Data
   Cogn. Comput. 2022, 6, 73. https://doi.org/10.3390/bdcc6030073
   AMA Style

   Poulopoulos V, Wallace M. Digital Technologies and the Role of Data in
   Cultural Heritage: The Past, the Present, and the Future. Big Data and
   Cognitive Computing. 2022; 6(3):73. https://doi.org/10.3390/bdcc6030073
   Chicago/Turabian Style

   Poulopoulos, Vassilis, and Manolis Wallace. 2022. "Digital Technologies
   and the Role of Data in Cultural Heritage: The Past, the Present, and
   the Future" Big Data and Cognitive Computing 6, no. 3: 73.
   https://doi.org/10.3390/bdcc6030073
   Find Other Styles
   ____________________
   clear
   Big Data Cogn. Comput., EISSN 2504-2289, Published by MDPI
   RSS Content Alert

Further Information

   Article Processing Charges Pay an Invoice Open Access Policy Contact
   MDPI Jobs at MDPI

Guidelines

   For Authors For Reviewers For Editors For Librarians For Publishers For
   Societies For Conference Organizers

MDPI Initiatives

   Sciforum MDPI Books Preprints.org Scilit SciProfiles Encyclopedia JAMS
   Proceedings Series

Follow MDPI

   LinkedIn Facebook Twitter
   MDPI

   Subscribe to receive issue release notifications and newsletters from
   MDPI journals
   [_] Acoustics
   [_] Actuators
   [_] Administrative Sciences
   [_] Adolescents
   [_] Advances in Respiratory Medicine
   [_] Aerobiology
   [_] Aerospace
   [_] Agriculture
   [_] AgriEngineering
   [_] Agrochemicals
   [_] Agronomy
   [_] AI
   [_] Air
   [_] Algorithms
   [_] Allergies
   [_] Alloys
   [_] Analytica
   [_] Analytics
   [_] Anatomia
   [_] Anesthesia Research
   [_] Animals
   [_] Antibiotics
   [_] Antibodies
   [_] Antioxidants
   [_] Applied Biosciences
   [_] Applied Mechanics
   [_] Applied Microbiology
   [_] Applied Nano
   [_] Applied Sciences
   [_] Applied System Innovation
   [_] AppliedChem
   [_] AppliedMath
   [_] Aquaculture Journal
   [_] Architecture
   [_] Arthropoda
   [_] Arts
   [_] Astronomy
   [_] Atmosphere
   [_] Atoms
   [_] Audiology Research
   [_] Automation
   [_] Axioms
   [_] Bacteria
   [_] Batteries
   [_] Behavioral Sciences
   [_] Beverages
   [_] Big Data and Cognitive Computing
   [_] BioChem
   [_] Bioengineering
   [_] Biologics
   [_] Biology
   [_] Biology and Life Sciences Forum
   [_] Biomass
   [_] Biomechanics
   [_] BioMed
   [_] Biomedicines
   [_] BioMedInformatics
   [_] Biomimetics
   [_] Biomolecules
   [_] Biophysica
   [_] Biosensors
   [_] BioTech
   [_] Birds
   [_] Blockchains
   [_] Brain Sciences
   [_] Buildings
   [_] Businesses
   [_] C
   [_] Cancers
   [_] Cardiogenetics
   [_] Catalysts
   [_] Cells
   [_] Ceramics
   [_] Challenges
   [_] ChemEngineering
   [_] Chemistry
   [_] Chemistry Proceedings
   [_] Chemosensors
   [_] Children
   [_] Chips
   [_] CivilEng
   [_] Clean Technologies
   [_] Climate
   [_] Clinical and Translational Neuroscience
   [_] Clinics and Practice
   [_] Clocks & Sleep
   [_] Coasts
   [_] Coatings
   [_] Colloids and Interfaces
   [_] Colorants
   [_] Commodities
   [_] Complications
   [_] Compounds
   [_] Computation
   [_] Computer Sciences & Mathematics Forum
   [_] Computers
   [_] Condensed Matter
   [_] Conservation
   [_] Construction Materials
   [_] Corrosion and Materials Degradation
   [_] Cosmetics
   [_] COVID
   [_] Crops
   [_] Cryptography
   [_] Crystals
   [_] Current Issues in Molecular Biology
   [_] Current Oncology
   [_] Dairy
   [_] Data
   [_] Dentistry Journal
   [_] Dermato
   [_] Dermatopathology
   [_] Designs
   [_] Diabetology
   [_] Diagnostics
   [_] Dietetics
   [_] Digital
   [_] Disabilities
   [_] Diseases
   [_] Diversity
   [_] DNA
   [_] Drones
   [_] Drugs and Drug Candidates
   [_] Dynamics
   [_] Earth
   [_] Ecologies
   [_] Econometrics
   [_] Economies
   [_] Education Sciences
   [_] Electricity
   [_] Electrochem
   [_] Electronic Materials
   [_] Electronics
   [_] Emergency Care and Medicine
   [_] Encyclopedia
   [_] Endocrines
   [_] Energies
   [_] Eng
   [_] Engineering Proceedings
   [_] Entropy
   [_] Environmental Sciences Proceedings
   [_] Environments
   [_] Epidemiologia
   [_] Epigenomes
   [_] European Burn Journal
   [_] European Journal of Investigation in Health, Psychology and
   Education
   [_] Fermentation
   [_] Fibers
   [_] FinTech
   [_] Fire
   [_] Fishes
   [_] Fluids
   [_] Foods
   [_] Forecasting
   [_] Forensic Sciences
   [_] Forests
   [_] Fossils
   [_] Foundations
   [_] Fractal and Fractional
   [_] Fuels
   [_] Future
   [_] Future Internet
   [_] Future Pharmacology
   [_] Future Transportation
   [_] Galaxies
   [_] Games
   [_] Gases
   [_] Gastroenterology Insights
   [_] Gastrointestinal Disorders
   [_] Gastronomy
   [_] Gels
   [_] Genealogy
   [_] Genes
   [_] Geographies
   [_] GeoHazards
   [_] Geomatics
   [_] Geosciences
   [_] Geotechnics
   [_] Geriatrics
   [_] Gout, Urate, and Crystal Deposition Disease
   [_] Grasses
   [_] Hardware
   [_] Healthcare
   [_] Hearts
   [_] Hemato
   [_] Hematology Reports
   [_] Heritage
   [_] Histories
   [_] Horticulturae
   [_] Hospitals
   [_] Humanities
   [_] Humans
   [_] Hydrobiology
   [_] Hydrogen
   [_] Hydrology
   [_] Hygiene
   [_] Immuno
   [_] Infectious Disease Reports
   [_] Informatics
   [_] Information
   [_] Infrastructures
   [_] Inorganics
   [_] Insects
   [_] Instruments
   [_] International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health
   [_] International Journal of Financial Studies
   [_] International Journal of Molecular Sciences
   [_] International Journal of Neonatal Screening
   [_] International Journal of Plant Biology
   [_] International Journal of Translational Medicine
   [_] International Journal of Turbomachinery, Propulsion and Power
   [_] International Medical Education
   [_] Inventions
   [_] IoT
   [_] ISPRS International Journal of Geo-Information
   [_] J
   [_] Journal of Ageing and Longevity
   [_] Journal of Cardiovascular Development and Disease
   [_] Journal of Clinical & Translational Ophthalmology
   [_] Journal of Clinical Medicine
   [_] Journal of Composites Science
   [_] Journal of Cybersecurity and Privacy
   [_] Journal of Developmental Biology
   [_] Journal of Experimental and Theoretical Analyses
   [_] Journal of Functional Biomaterials
   [_] Journal of Functional Morphology and Kinesiology
   [_] Journal of Fungi
   [_] Journal of Imaging
   [_] Journal of Intelligence
   [_] Journal of Low Power Electronics and Applications
   [_] Journal of Manufacturing and Materials Processing
   [_] Journal of Marine Science and Engineering
   [_] Journal of Molecular Pathology
   [_] Journal of Nanotheranostics
   [_] Journal of Nuclear Engineering
   [_] Journal of Otorhinolaryngology, Hearing and Balance Medicine
   [_] Journal of Personalized Medicine
   [_] Journal of Respiration
   [_] Journal of Risk and Financial Management
   [_] Journal of Sensor and Actuator Networks
   [_] Journal of Theoretical and Applied Electronic Commerce Research
   [_] Journal of Vascular Diseases
   [_] Journal of Xenobiotics
   [_] Journal of Zoological and Botanical Gardens
   [_] Journalism and Media
   [_] Kidney and Dialysis
   [_] Kinases and Phosphatases
   [_] Knowledge
   [_] Land
   [_] Languages
   [_] Laws
   [_] Life
   [_] Limnological Review
   [_] Liquids
   [_] Literature
   [_] Livers
   [_] Logics
   [_] Logistics
   [_] Lubricants
   [_] Lymphatics
   [_] Machine Learning and Knowledge Extraction
   [_] Machines
   [_] Macromol
   [_] Magnetism
   [_] Magnetochemistry
   [_] Marine Drugs
   [_] Materials
   [_] Materials Proceedings
   [_] Mathematical and Computational Applications
   [_] Mathematics
   [_] Medical Sciences
   [_] Medical Sciences Forum
   [_] Medicina
   [_] Medicines
   [_] Membranes
   [_] Merits
   [_] Metabolites
   [_] Metals
   [_] Meteorology
   [_] Methane
   [_] Methods and Protocols
   [_] Metrology
   [_] Micro
   [_] Microbiology Research
   [_] Micromachines
   [_] Microorganisms
   [_] Microplastics
   [_] Minerals
   [_] Mining
   [_] Modelling
   [_] Molbank
   [_] Molecules
   [_] Multimodal Technologies and Interaction
   [_] Muscles
   [_] Nanoenergy Advances
   [_] Nanomanufacturing
   [_] Nanomaterials
   [_] NDT
   [_] Network
   [_] Neuroglia
   [_] Neurology International
   [_] NeuroSci
   [_] Nitrogen
   [_] Non-Coding RNA
   [_] Nursing Reports
   [_] Nutraceuticals
   [_] Nutrients
   [_] Obesities
   [_] Oceans
   [_] Onco
   [_] Optics
   [_] Oral
   [_] Organics
   [_] Organoids
   [_] Osteology
   [_] Oxygen
   [_] Parasitologia
   [_] Particles
   [_] Pathogens
   [_] Pathophysiology
   [_] Pediatric Reports
   [_] Pharmaceuticals
   [_] Pharmaceutics
   [_] Pharmacoepidemiology
   [_] Pharmacy
   [_] Philosophies
   [_] Photochem
   [_] Photonics
   [_] Phycology
   [_] Physchem
   [_] Physical Sciences Forum
   [_] Physics
   [_] Physiologia
   [_] Plants
   [_] Plasma
   [_] Platforms
   [_] Pollutants
   [_] Polymers
   [_] Polysaccharides
   [_] Poultry
   [_] Powders
   [_] Proceedings
   [_] Processes
   [_] Prosthesis
   [_] Proteomes
   [_] Psych
   [_] Psychiatry International
   [_] Psychoactives
   [_] Publications
   [_] Quantum Beam Science
   [_] Quantum Reports
   [_] Quaternary
   [_] Radiation
   [_] Reactions
   [_] Real Estate
   [_] Receptors
   [_] Recycling
   [_] Religions
   [_] Remote Sensing
   [_] Reports
   [_] Reproductive Medicine
   [_] Resources
   [_] Rheumato
   [_] Risks
   [_] Robotics
   [_] Ruminants
   [_] Safety
   [_] Sci
   [_] Scientia Pharmaceutica
   [_] Sclerosis
   [_] Seeds
   [_] Sensors
   [_] Separations
   [_] Sexes
   [_] Signals
   [_] Sinusitis
   [_] Smart Cities
   [_] Social Sciences
   [_] Societies
   [_] Software
   [_] Soil Systems
   [_] Solar
   [_] Solids
   [_] Spectroscopy Journal
   [_] Sports
   [_] Standards
   [_] Stats
   [_] Stresses
   [_] Surfaces
   [_] Surgeries
   [_] Surgical Techniques Development
   [_] Sustainability
   [_] Sustainable Chemistry
   [_] Symmetry
   [_] SynBio
   [_] Systems
   [_] Targets
   [_] Taxonomy
   [_] Technologies
   [_] Telecom
   [_] Textiles
   [_] Thalassemia Reports
   [_] Thermo
   [_] Tomography
   [_] Tourism and Hospitality
   [_] Toxics
   [_] Toxins
   [_] Transplantology
   [_] Trauma Care
   [_] Trends in Higher Education
   [_] Tropical Medicine and Infectious Disease
   [_] Universe
   [_] Urban Science
   [_] Uro
   [_] Vaccines
   [_] Vehicles
   [_] Venereology
   [_] Veterinary Sciences
   [_] Vibration
   [_] Virtual Worlds
   [_] Viruses
   [_] Vision
   [_] Waste
   [_] Water
   [_] Wind
   [_] Women
   [_] World
   [_] World Electric Vehicle Journal
   [_] Youth
   [_] Zoonotic Diseases
   ____________________ (BUTTON) Subscribe
   ¬© 1996-2023 MDPI (Basel, Switzerland) unless otherwise stated
   Disclaimer
   Disclaimer/Publisher‚Äôs Note: The statements, opinions and data
   contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
   author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI
   and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to people
   or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products
   referred to in the content.
   Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy
   We use cookies on our website to ensure you get the best experience.
   Read more about our cookies here.
   Accept

Share Link

   ____________________
   Copy
   clear

Share

   https://www.mdpi.com/1710490
   clear

   Back to TopTop
