   Skip to:
     * Search
     * Global navigation
     * Site navigation
     * Content

School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering Bulletin 2019-2020

Indiana University

Search

   ___________ GO

     * (*)   IU Bulletins
     * ( )   IU

     * Overview
     * Undergraduate
     * Graduate
     * Organizations & Services
     * Policies & Procedures
     * Faculty

     * Admission
     * Courses
          + Computer Science
          + Engineering
          + Informatics
          + Information and Library Science
     * Degree Programs
          + BS in Computer Science
               o Software Engineering
               o Data Science Specialization
               o Security Specialization
          + BS in Informatics
               o Media Cognate
               o Economics Cognate
          + BS in Intelligent Systems Engineering
               o Computer Engineering/Cyber-Physical Systems Concentration
               o Bachelor of Science in Intelligent Systems Engineering
               o Bioengineering Concentration
               o Nanoscale Systems Engineering Concentration
          + Certificates & Minors
          + Concurrent/Sequential Baccalaureate Degrees

   SICE » Undergraduate » Courses » Informatics

Undergraduate Programs

Courses

Informatics

     * INFO-I 101 Introduction to Informatics (4 cr.) Problem solving with
       information technology; introductions to information
       representation, relational databases, system design, propositional
       logic, cutting-edge technologies: CPU, operation systems, networks;
       laboratory emphasizing information technology including Web page
       design, word processing, databases, using tools available on
       campus. Credit not given for both INFO-I 101 and H 101.

     * INFO-H 101 Introduction to Informatics, Honors (4 cr.) Honors
       version of  INFO-I 101. Problem solving with information
       technology; introductions to information representation, relational
       databases, system design, propositional logic, cutting-edge
       technologies: CPU, operation systems, networks; laboratory
       emphasizing information technology including Web page design, word
       processing, databases, using tools available on campus. Credit not
       given for both INFO-H 101 and I 101.

     * INFO-I 110 Basic Tools of Informatics I—Programming Concepts
       (1.5 cr.) CSCI-A 110, A 111, or equivalent computing experience
       recommended. Introduction to programming for users of computer
       systems. Emphasis on problem-solving techniques. An eight-week
       lecture and laboratory course. Cross-listed with CSCI-A 112. Credit
       not given for both INFO-I 110 and CSCI-A 112.

     * INFO-I 111 Basic Tools of Informatics II—Introduction to Databases
       (1.5 cr.) CSCI-A 110, A 111, or equivalent computing experience
       recommended. Introduction to database design concepts. Entering and
       modifying data, accessing data using visual tools and SQL, and
       building database applications using forms and application
       development tools. Emphasis on problem-solving techniques. An
       eight-week lecture and laboratory course. Credit not given for both
       INFO-I 111 and CSCI-A 114.

     * INFO-I 123 Data Fluency (3 cr.) Data is big. Data is everywhere.
       How can we possibly be expected to keep up in a world full of data,
       much of which is data about ourselves? This class provides
       fundmental skills for the 21st century: understanding data,
       extracting knowledge from data, generating predictions from data
       and presenting data.

     * INFO-I 130 Introduction to Cybersecurity (1 cr.) P: INFO-I 101.
       This course introduces students to cybersecurity. The course will
       primarily focus on introduction to three core areas (technical
       aspects of security, organizational aspects of security, and legal
       aspects of security). Through examples of security problems in real
       life, this course will illuminate fundamental ideas and concepts of
       information security. An eight-week course.

     * INFO-I 201 Mathematical Foundations of Informatics (4 cr.)
       P: INFO-I 101 and (MATH-M 118 or A 118 or S 118 or V 118 or (MATH-D
       116 and D 117)). An introduction to methods of analytical,
       abstract, and critical thinking; deductive reasoning; and logical
       and mathematical tools used in information sciences. The topics
       include propositional and predicate logic, natural deduction proof
       system, sets, functions and relations, proof methods in
       mathematics, mathematical induction, and graph theory. Credit not
       given for both INFO-I 201 and H 201.

     * INFO-H 201 Mathematical Foundations of Informatics, Honors (4 cr.)
       P: INFO-I 101 and (MATH-M 118 or A 118 or S 118 or V 118 or (MATH-D
       116 and D 117)). Honors version of INFO-I 201. An introduction to
       methods of analytical, abstract, and critical thinking; deductive
       reasoning; and logical and mathematical tools used in information
       sciences. The topics include propositional and predicate logic,
       natural deduction proof system, sets, functions and relations,
       proof methods in mathematics, mathematical induction, and graph
       theory. Credit not given for both INFO-H 201 and I 201.

     * INFO-I 202 Social Informatics (3 cr.) P: INFO-I 101. Introduction
       to key social research perspectives and literatures on the use of
       information and communication technologies. Discusses current
       topics such as information ethics, relevant legal frameworks,
       popular and controversial uses of technology (for example,
       peer-to-peer file sharing), digital divides, and so on. Outlines
       research methodologies for social informatics. Credit not given for
       both INFO-I 202 and H 202.

     * INFO-H 202 Social Informatics, Honors (3 cr.) P: INFO-I 101. Honors
       version of INFO-I 202. Introduction to key social research
       perspectives and literatures on the use of information and
       communication technologies. Discusses current topics such as
       information ethics, relevant legal frameworks, popular and
       controversial uses of technology (for example, peer-to-peer file
       sharing), digital divides, and so on. Outlines research
       methodologies for social informatics. Credit not given for both
       INFO-H 202 and I 202.

     * INFO-I 210 Information Infrastructure I (4 cr.) P: INFO-I 201 or
       CSCI-C 241. The software architecture of information systems. Basic
       concepts of systems and applications programming. Credit not given
       for both INFO-I 210 and H 210.

     * INFO-H 210 Information Infrastructure I, Honors (4 cr.) P: INFO-I
       201 or CSCI-C 241. Honors version of INFO-I 210. The software
       architecture of information systems. Basic concepts of systems and
       applications programming. Credit not given for both INFO-H 210 and
       I 210.

     * INFO-I 211 Information Infrastructure II (4 cr.) P: INFO-I 210 or
       CSCI-C 200 or C 211. The systems architecture of distributed
       applications. Advanced programming, including an introduction to
       the programming of graphical systems. Credit not given for both
       INFO-I 211 and H 211.

     * INFO-H 211 Information Infrastructure II, Honors (4 cr.) P: INFO-I
       210 or CSCI-C 200 or C 211. Honors version of  INFO-I 211. The
       systems architecture of distributed applications. Advanced
       programming, including an introduction to the programming of
       graphical systems. Credit not given for both INFO-H 211 and I 211.

     * INFO-I 222 The Information Society (3 cr.) In this course, students
       will learn to think critically about what it means to live in an
       "Information Society." From printing press to telephone to computer
       to the Internet, they will explore the history and social
       implications of the various information revolutions that shaped
       contemporary commercial, scientific, organizational, political
       life.

     * INFO-I 230 Analytical Foundations of Security (3 cr.) P: INFO-I
       101. This course will enable students to reevaluate and
       conceptualize material learned in discrete courses to consider the
       topics from their perspective of security. For example, computer
       system basics such as hardware (CPUs, memory) and software are
       reconsidered from the perspective of how their interactions create
       vulnerabilities. Vulnerabilities that combine standard hardware and
       software configurations will be examined because they illuminate
       both security and computer networks. Operating systems and file
       systems are examined from the perspective of access control,
       permissions, and availability of system services.

     * INFO-I 231 Introduction to the Mathematics of Cybersecurity (3 cr.)
       INFO-I 101 and I 201 recommended. The goal of this course is for
       students to be introduced to the basic mathematical tools used in
       modern cybersecurity. The course covers introductory mathematical
       material from a number of disparate fields including probability
       theory, analysis of algorithms, complexity theory, number theory,
       and group theory. Credit not given for both INFO-I 231 and CSCI-C
       231.

     * INFO-I 300 HCI/Interaction Design (3 cr.) P: INFO- I 202 or I 222.
       The analysis of human factors and the design of computer
       application interfaces. A survey of current HCI designs with an eye
       toward what future technologies will allow. The course will
       emphasize learning HCI based on implementation and testing
       interfaces. Credit not given for both INFO-I 300 and H 300.

     * INFO-H 300 HCI/Interaction Design, Honors (3 cr.) P: INFO- I 202 or
       I 222. Honors version of INFO-I 300. The analysis of human factors
       and the design of computer application interfaces. A survey of
       current HCI designs with an eye toward what future technologies
       will allow. The course will emphasize learning HCI based on
       implementation and testing interfaces. Credit not given for both
       INFO-H 300 and I 300.

     * INFO-I 301 Presentations for IT Professionals (3 cr.) Must be a
       SICE major. Students present several different types of
       presentations and engage in developing these "21st Century skills"
       for their future. The course utilizes an open studio format that
       allows students to explore public speaking to better prepare for
       future educational and professional presentations.

     * INFO-I 303 Organizational Informatics (3 cr.) P: INFO-I 101.
       Examines the various needs, uses, and consequences of information
       in organizational contexts. Topics include organizational types and
       characteristics, functional areas and business processes,
       information-based products and services, the use of and redefining
       the role of information technology, the changing character of work
       life and organizational practices, sociotechnical structures, and
       the rise and transformation of information-based industries.

     * INFO-I 308 Information Representation (3 cr.) P: INFO-I 201 and
       (INFO-I 210 or CSCI-C 200 or C 211). The basic structure of
       information representation in digital information systems. Begins
       with low-level computer representations such as common character
       and numeric encodings. Introduces formal design and query languages
       through Entity Relationship Modeling, the Relational Model, XML,
       and XHTML. Laboratory topics include SQL and XPath querying. Credit
       not given for both INFO-I 308 and H 308.

     * INFO-H 308 Information Representation, Honors (3 cr.) P: INFO-I 201
       and (INFO-I 210 or CSCI-C 211 or C 200). Honors version of  INFO-I
       308. The basic structure of information representation in digital
       information systems. Begins with low-level computer representations
       such as common character and numeric encodings. Introduces formal
       design and query languages through Entity Relationship Modeling,
       the Relational Model, XML, and XHTML. Laboratory topics include SQL
       and XPath querying. Credit not given for both INFO-H 308 and I 308.

     * INFO-I 310 Multimedia Arts and Technology (3 cr.) P: INFO-I 300.
       The study of the evolution of media arts and underlying principles
       of communication. Application development paradigms in current
       practice.

     * INFO-I 311 Application Development (3 cr.) P: INFO-I 210 or CSCI-C
       200 or C 211. This undergraduate course uses a professional
       development environment to teach advanced programming skills using
       an object oriented programming language. Topics include primitive
       data types, mathematical functions, string manipulation, arrays,
       logical statements, loops, methods, classes, inheritance,
       debugging, exception handling, graphical user interfaces (GUIs),
       and version control software.

     * INFO-I 320 Distributed Systems and Collaborative Computing (3 cr.)
       INFO-I 211 recommended. An introductory treatment of distributed
       systems and programming. Topics range from the distributed and
       object models of computation to advanced concepts such as remote
       method invocations, object brokers, object services, open systems,
       and future trends for distributed information systems.

     * INFO-I 330 Legal and Social Informatics of Security (3 cr.)
       P: INFO-I 211 and I 230. This course examines that set of ethical
       and legal problems most tightly bound to the issues of information
       control. The interaction and technology changes, but the core
       issues have remained: privacy, intellectual property, Internet law,
       concepts of jurisdiction, speech anonymity versus accountability,
       and ethical decision making in the network environment.

     * INFO-I 341 Prototyping for Arduino Tools (3 cr.) The course covers
       material culture and literature of the hobby and professional
       electronics design communities with the goal of creating a physical
       prototype that communicates the students' creative and social
       vision. These student prototypes are model systems that embody the
       computational and organizational thinking of working effectively
       within engineering firms.

     * INFO-I 342 Mobile Programming I (3 cr.) P: INFO-I 311. This
       undergraduate course uses a professional development environment to
       teach skills to program applications for mobile devices. Topics
       include graphical user interfaces (GUIs), data management,
       recording and playing back audio and video, location, maps, and
       using text messaging within an application.

     * INFO-I 356 Globalization, Where We Fit In (3 cr.) Globalization
       changes how we work, what we buy, and who we know. Globalization
       involves people working eighty hour weeks in China and receiving
       free state-of-the-art drugs in Africa. Learn about the past,
       present and future of globalization, and what it means for you,
       your job, and your community.

     * INFO-I 360 Web Design (3 cr.) P: INFO-I 101. Hands-on introduction
       to the core standards required for professional front-end web
       design and development (HTML/CSS/Bootstrap). You will create
       websites, plus learn how web content and style work together, how
       to make professional choices about web graphics and layout, and how
       to analyze and critique a website's design and structure.

     * INFO-I 368 Introduction to Network Science (3 cr.) P: INFO-I 211.
       Friends, computers, the Web, and our brain are examples of networks
       that pervade our lives. Network science helps us understand complex
       patterns of connection, interaction, and relationships in many
       complex systems. Students learn essential concepts and core ideas
       of network literacy, and basic tools to handle social and
       information networks.

     * INFO-I 369 Performance Analytics (3 cr.) P: INFO-I 201 and (I 210
       or CSCI-C 200 or C 211). INFO-I 368 recommended. This course will
       review quantitative studies aimed at measuring, predicting and
       understanding performance in social competitive arenas, ranging
       from social media to financial markets, from professional sports to
       scientific and technological innovation.

     * INFO-I 370 Methods for HCC (3 cr.) At least junior standing or
       permission of instructor. UX/UI Design uses a variety of approaches
       for obtaining human-centered information and requirements for the
       design and development of systems and applications. The course
       surveys key methods, current and emergent, in the field of Human
       Computer Interaction and Interaction Design to prepare students for
       a career in IT.

     * INFO-I 371 Chemical Informatics I (1 cr.) Presents basic concepts
       of information representation, storage, and retrieval as they
       pertain to chemistry. The course is designed to give an overview of
       the techniques that make modern chemical informatics systems work.
       Looks at some of the coding techniques that form the basis for
       chemical information retrieval by structures, nomenclature, and
       molecular formulas. Examines various methods of coding for
       visualization of chemical structures and chemical data. In
       addition, some of the major algorithms and techniques used in the
       modern pharmaceutical industry to enhance their research efforts
       are presented in INFO-I 371.

     * INFO-I 372 Molecular Modeling (1 cr.) CHEM-C 341 recommended.
       Molecular modeling and computational chemistry; application of
       quantum mechanics and molecular mechanics to drive structural and
       energetic information about molecules; conformational analysis;
       quantitative structure activity relationships (QSAR) and related
       methods for drug design.

     * INFO-I 390 Undergraduate Independent Study (1-3 cr.) Department
       approval. Independent research based on existing literature or
       original work. A report, in the style of a departmental technical
       report, is required. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit
       hours.

     * INFO-I 391 Internship in Informatics Professional Practice
       (1-3 cr.) Department approval. Students gain professional work
       experience in an industry or research organization setting, using
       skills and knowledge acquired in informatics course work. May be
       repeated for a maximum of 3 credit hours.

     * INFO-I 399 Current Topics in Informatics (1-3 cr.) Variable topic
       course. Emphasis is on new developments and research in
       informatics. May be repeated once with different topic.

     * INFO-I 400 Topics in Informatics (1-3 cr.) Variable topic. Emphasis
       is on new developments and research in informatics. May be repeated
       when topic varies.

     * INFO-H 400 Topics in Informatics, Honors (1-3 cr.) Honors version
       of INFO-I 400. Variable topic. Emphasis is on development and
       research in informatics. May be repeated when topic varies.

     * INFO-I 407 Introduction to Health Informatics (3 cr.) P: INFO-I
       300. This is a combined advanced undergraduate and graduate course
       that provides an introduction to health informatics. By the end of
       the course, students will be able to describe and apply informatics
       methods that improve health and well being. Credit not given for
       both INFO-I 407 and H 407.

     * INFO-H 407 Introduction to Health Informatics, Honors (3 cr.)
       P: INFO-I 300. Honors version of  INFO-I 407. This is a combined
       advanced undergraduate and graduate course that provides an
       introduction to health informatics. By the end of the course,
       student will be able to describe and apply informatics methods that
       improve health and well being. Credit not given for both INFO-H 407
       and I 407.

     * INFO-I 421 Applications of Data Mining (3 cr.) INFO-I 308
       recommended. The course explores the use of data mining techniques
       in different settings, including business and scientific domains.
       The emphasis will be on using techniques instead of developing new
       techniques or algorithms. Students will select, prepare, visualize,
       analyze, and present data that leads to the discovery of novel and
       actionable information.

     * INFO-I 422 Data Visualization (3 cr.) From dashboards in a car to
       cutting-edge scientific papers, we extensively use visual
       representation of data.  As our world becomes increasingly
       connected and digitized and as more decisions are being driven by
       data, data visualization is becoming a critical skill for every
       knowledge worker. In this course we will learn fundamentals of data
       visualization and create visualizations that can provide insights
       into complex datasets.

     * INFO-I 423 Big Data Applications and Analytics (3 cr.) The Big Data
       Applications & Analytics course is an overview course in Data
       Science and covers the applications and technologies (data
       analytics and clouds) needed to process the application data. It is
       organized around rallying cry: Use Clouds running Data Analytics
       Collaboratively processing Big Data to solve problems in
       X-Informatics.  Credit given for only one of INFO-I 423, I 523, or
       ENGR-E 534.

     * INFO-I 424 Big Data Software and Projects (3 cr.) This course
       studies software HPC-ABDS used in either High Performance Computing
       or the open source commercial Big Data cloud computing. The student
       builds analysis systems using this software on clouds and then to
       use it on a project either chosen by student or selected from list
       given by instructor. Credit not given for both INFO-I 424 and I
       524.

     * INFO-I 426 Informatics in Disasters and Emergency Response (3 cr.)
       This course teaches students the skills needed to design and deploy
       informatics technologies in emergency response and disaster
       situations, including practical applications. Specific areas
       include technology design, situational awareness, threat modeling,
       and data science.   Credit not given for both INFO-I 426 and I 516.

     * INFO-I 427 Search Informatics (3 cr.) P: INFO-I 211. Techniques and
       tools to automatically crawl, parse, index, store, and search Web
       information, organizing knowledge that can help meet the needs of
       organizations, communities and individual users. Social and
       business impact of search engine technology. As a project, students
       will build a real search engine and compare it with Google.

     * INFO-I 430 Security for Networked Systems (3 cr.) P: INFO-I 231 or
       CSCI-C 231. This course is an extensive survey of network security.
       The course materials cover threats to information confidentiality,
       integrity, and availability in different Internet layers, and
       defense mechanisms that control these threats. The course also
       provides a necessary foundation on network security, such as
       cryptographic, primitives/protocols, authentication, authorization
       and access control technologies; and hands-on experiences through
       programming assignments and course projects. Credit given for only
       one of INFO-I 430, I 520, or CSCI-B 430.

     * INFO-I 433 Systems & Protocol Security & Information Assurance
       (3 cr.) P: CSCI-C 291 and (INFO-I 231 or CSCI-C 231). This class
       covers the fundamentals of computer security by looking at how
       things can go wrong, and how people can abuse the system. This is a
       matter of creative cheating; to find loopholes and exploit them.
       After students learn how to attack the system, it is possible to
       propose ways to make the system secure. Students will gain a basic
       overview of existing security problems and be exposed to methods
       that can be used to secure against such problems. The course should
       be taken by any one designing, selecting, or using applications in
       which security or privacy plays a role. Credit given for only one
       of INFO-I 433, I 533, or CSCI-B 433.

     * INFO-I 435 Management, Access, and Use of Big and Complex Data
       (3 cr.) Innovation today is emerging from a preponderance of data
       from sensors, social media, and the Internet. This course covers
       knowledge representation, data process, and data management for big
       and complex data. Specific topics include data integration,
       semantics, and provenance; workflows and pipelines; and distributed
       noSQL stores.  Credit not given for both INFO-I 435 and I 535.

     * INFO-I 436 Technology Innovation (3 cr.) This course teaches
       students the process of innovation, specifically in respect to
       technological innovation. Students are required to ideate
       technological concepts given a set of constraints and an
       opportunity space. The focus of the course is on students inventing
       and implementing without considering the commercial potential of
       their innovations. Credit not given for both INFO-I 436 and I 566.

     * INFO-I 437 Design Strategy (3 cr.) Permission of instructor. The
       course requires students to apply "the" design process to better
       understand the factors affecting the success or failure of a design
       beyond the target audience and problem space in order to iterate on
       the design to propose solutions to avoid its failure, a process
       known as strategic design.

     * INFO-I 438 Technology Entrepreneurship (3 cr.) This course will
       teach students the importance of systems and design thinking as
       they relate to building and managing a startup holistically.
       Students will be required to take a business concept from inception
       to implementation, at least to the degree required to have a
       minimum viable product (MVP). Credit not given for both INFO-I 438
       and I 568.

     * INFO-I 440 Human Robot Interaction (3 cr.) This course surveys the
       field of human-robot interaction (HRI), which involves
       understanding how people perceive and respond to robots and
       creating robots that interact naturally with people. We will
       discuss the design, evaluation and societal significance of
       interactive robots from a human-centered perspective through
       readings, discussion and developing HRI prototypes. Credit given
       for only one of INFO-I 440, H 440 or I 540.

     * INFO-H 440 Human Robot Interaction, Honors (3 cr.) This course
       surveys the field of human-robot interaction (HRI), which involves
       understanding how people perceive and respond to robots and
       creating robots that interact naturally with people. We will
       discuss the design, evaluation and societal significance of
       interactive robots from a human-centered perspective through
       readings, discussion and developing HRI prototypes. Credit given
       for only one of INFO-I 440, H 440 or I 540.

     * INFO-I 441 Interaction Design Practice (3 cr.) INFO-I 300
       recommended. Human-computer interaction design (HCID) describes the
       way a person or group accomplishes tasks with a computer—what the
       individual or group does and how the computer responds; what the
       computer does and how the individual or group responds. This course
       is organized around a collection of readings and three design
       projects applying human-computer interaction principles to the
       design, selection, and evaluation of interactive systems.

     * INFO-I 453 Computer and Information Ethics (3 cr.) Ethical and
       professionalization issues that arise in the context of designing
       and using networked information technologies and information
       resources. Examines frameworks for making ethical decisions,
       emergent technologies and their ethical implications,
       information/computer professionalism. Topics include privacy,
       intellectual property, cybercrime, games, social justice, and codes
       of professional ethics.

     * INFO-I 468 Advanced Network Science (3 cr.) P: INFO-I 368. Friends,
       computers, the Web, and our brain are examples of networks that
       pervade our lives. Network science helps us understand complex
       patterns of connection, interaction, and relationships in many
       complex systems. Students learn about networks analytic tools,
       using increasingly complex models and data from social,
       infrastructure, and information networks.

     * INFO-I 469 Collective Intelligence (3 cr.) This course examines the
       phenomenon of Collective Intelligence from a computational
       perspective, with theory and applications in the biological,
       cultural, and economic domains. We will, in particular, focus on
       the role of social media which is enabling collective intelligence
       applications at previously unimagined scales.

     * INFO-I 485 Bioinspired Computing (3 cr.) P: INFO-I 211 or CSCI-C
       212. Biological organisms cope with the demands of their
       environments using solutions quite unlike the traditional
       human-engineered approaches to problem solving. Biological systems
       tend to be adaptive, reactive, and distributed. Bio-inspired
       computing is a field devoted to tackling complex problems using
       computational methods modeled after design principles encountered
       in nature. Credit not given for both INFO-I 485 and I 585.

     * INFO-I 486 Artificial Life (3 cr.) Artificial Life is a broad
       discipline encompassing the origins, modeling, and synthesis of
       natural and artificial living entities and systems. Artificial
       Intelligence, as a discipline, tries to model and understand
       intelligent systems and behavior, typically at the human level.
       Credit not given for both INFO-I 486 and I 586.

     * INFO-I 487 Introduction to Virtual Heritage (3 cr.) This course
       focuses on how digital technology can represent, restore,
       disseminate, and help with analysis of artifacts such as vases,
       furniture, sculpture, monuments, and buildings. Other topics
       covered include the history and methodologies of Virtual Heritage.
       Each semester a different case study will provide the focus for the
       course. Credit not given for both INFO-I 487 and I 587.

     * INFO-I 488 Advanced Topics in Virtual Heritage (3 cr.) This course
       teaches students how to create simulations of complex cultural
       heritage environments such as a room and its furnishings, a
       building, or a settlement. Also covered are the principles of
       restorations of art, technologies to disseminate 3D models, and the
       use of simulations as tools of scientific discovery. Credit not
       given for both INFO-I 488 and I 588.

     * INFO-I 490 Professional Practicum/Internship for Undergraduates
       (0 cr.) Department approval. Provides for participation in
       professional training and internship experience.

     * INFO-I 491 Capstone Project Internship (1-6 cr.) P: INFO-I 211 and
       I 308. Department approval. Students put their informatics
       education in practice through the development of a substantial
       project while working in a professional information technology
       environment. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours.

     * INFO-I 492 Senior Thesis (3 cr.) All required core courses must be
       completed. Department approval. The senior student prepares and
       presents a thesis: a substantial, typically multichapter paper
       based on a well-planned research or scholarly project, as
       determined by the student and a sponsoring faculty member.

     * INFO-I 493 Senior Thesis (3 cr.) P: INFO-I 492. Department
       approval. The senior student prepares and presents a thesis: a
       substantial, typically multichapter paper based on a well-planned
       research or scholarly project, as determined by the student and a
       sponsoring faculty member.

     * INFO-I 494 Design and Development of an Information System (3 cr.)
       P: All required core courses must be completed. Students work on
       capstone projects in supervised teams. They select an appropriate
       project (preferably based on cognate) and then learn to develop a
       plan that leads to success. Teamwork, communication, and
       organizational skills are emphasized in a real-world-style
       environment. Credit not given for both INFO-I 494 and H 494.

     * INFO-H 494 Design and Development of an Information System, Honors
       (3 cr.) P: All required core courses must be completed. All
       required core courses must be completed. Honors version of INFO-I
       494. Students work on capstone projects in supervised teams. They
       select an appropriate project (preferably based on cognate) and
       then learn to develop a plan that leads to success. Teamwork,
       communication, and organizational skills are emphasized in a
       real-world-style environment. Credit not given for both INFO-H 494
       and I 494.

     * INFO-I 495 Design and Development of an Information System (3 cr.)
       P: INFO-I 494. Students work on capstone projects in supervised
       teams. They select an appropriate project (preferably based on
       cognate) and then learn to develop a plan that leads to success.
       Teamwork, communication, and organizational skills are emphasized
       in a real-world-style environment. Credit not given for both INFO-I
       495 and H 495.

     * INFO-H 495 Design and Development of an Information System, Honors
       (3 cr.) P: INFO-I 494. Honors version of INFO-I 495. Students work
       on capstone projects in supervised teams. They select an
       appropriate project (preferably based on cognate) and then learn to
       develop a plan that leads to success. Teamwork, communication, and
       organizational skills are emphasized in a real-world-style
       environment. Credit not given for both INFO-H 495 and I 495.

     * INFO-H 498 Honors Seminar (1-3 cr.) Junior or senior major in INFO
       with GPA at least 3.3 or permission of instructor. A survey of
       faculty research in computer related fields with different
       professors discussing their research each week. May be repeated for
       a maximum of 6 credit hours.

     * INFO-I 499 Readings and Research in Informatics (1-3 cr.)
       Department approval. Independent readings and research related to a
       topic of special interest to the student. Written report required.
       May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours for any combination
       of INFO-I 499 and H 499.

     * INFO-H 499 Readings and Research in Informatics, Honors (1-3 cr.)
       Department approval. Honors version of INFO-I 499. Independent
       readings and research related to a topic of special interest to the
       student. Written report required. May be repeated for a maximum of
       6 credit hours for any combination of INFO-I 499 and H 499.

     * INFO-T 100 Topics in Informatics Technology (1-3 cr.) Variable
       topic. The course serves as an introduction to a specific
       information technology in a hands-on setting. Emphasis is on
       problem solving techniques using technology. Credit hours may not
       be applied toward satisfying major requirements in the School of
       Informatics, Computing, and Engineering.

     * INFO-Y 100 Exploring Informatics and Computer Science (1 cr.)
       Technology is everywhere and how it relates to the world today is
       very important to the future. The objective of this course is to
       offer students an opportunity to explore the many tracks within the
       fields of Informatics, Computer Science, and Engineering while also
       learning about the multiple careers available to students majoring
       in the fields. Emphasis will be placed on the various ways
       technology affects the work world and how students can tailor a
       major to their individual interests. The course will promote a
       hands-on, interactive and self-reflective course environment.
       Offered as either a six or eight week course.

     * INFO-Y 101 Technology Leadership and Innovation (1.5 cr.) This
       course will focus on developing student leaders by providing
       resources and tools to empower them in setting goals, teamwork,
       communication, and decision-making skills. Students will have an
       opportunity to interact and develop relationships with School of
       Informatics and Computing faculty, staff, alumni, upper class
       students, and conduct research.

     * INFO-Y 102 Technology Leadership and Innovation II (1.5 cr.)
       P: INFO-Y 101. The focus of this course will be on developing you
       as a professional and a future leader. Topics addressed will
       include professional identity development; working in a diverse
       team; leadership in a global/multinational workforce; the role of
       social media; and the process and development of professional
       mentor relationships.

     * INFO-Y 395 Career Development for Informatics Majors (1 cr.) Helps
       students develop skills and knowledge to successfully pursue a
       career search, both at the time of graduation and as they progress
       through their careers. The course covers techniques and strategies
       to make the job search more efficient and effective. An eight-week
       course. Credit not given for both INFO-Y 395 and CSCI-Y 395.

Academic Bulletins

     * Indiana University
     * IU Bloomington

   Copyright © 2024 The Trustees of Indiana University, Copyright
   Complaints
