   Skip to main content Skip to main navigation
     * Giving
     * Corporate
     * Alumni
     * iSchool Connect

   University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign
   School of Information Sciences
   [ ] Menu
     * Visit
          + What is an iSchool?
          + Request Information
          + Upcoming Events
          + Tuition & Financial Support
          + Recruitment & Admissions Staff
          + iSchool Ambassadors
          + Student Videos
     * Degrees & Programs
          + Undergraduate
          + Graduate
          + Informatics Programs
          + Course Catalog
     * People
          + School Leadership
          + Faculty
          + Staff
          + Adjuncts & Affiliates
          + Emeriti Faculty
          + Doctoral Students
          + Committees
          + School Directory
     * Research
          + Areas
          + Projects
          + Vision
          + Services
          + Showcase
          + Research Fellows
          + Scholars-in-Residence
          + Postdoctoral Researchers
          + Videos
     * Engage
          + Corporate
          + Giving
          + Alumni
     * Student Life
          + Academic Support Center
          + Student Development Opportunities
          + Student Organizations
          + Convocation
          + Practicum & Career Courses
          + Career Support
          + Help Desk
     * News & Events
          + News Feed
          + Events Calendar
          + Publications
          + Upcoming Events
          + Lectures
          + Awards
     * Our School
          + 130th Anniversary
          + Strategic Plan
          + History
          + Data and Reporting
          + iSchool at a Glance
          + Building Facilities
          + Diversity & Inclusion
          + Job Openings
          + Contact Us

   [ ] Search
   ____________________
   (BUTTON)
   Research
   In This Section
     * Home
     * Research
     * Research Areas
     * Cultural Informatics and Heritage

Cultural Informatics and Heritage

   Understanding the role of information technology in preserving,
   transmitting, and shaping human culture and heritage

Researchers Working in this Area

     * Anita Say Chan
       Anita Say Chan
       Associate Professor
     * Emily Maemura
       Emily Maemura
       Assistant Professor
     * Stephen Downie
       J. Stephen Downie
       Professor, Associate Dean for Research, and Co-Director of the
       HathiTrust Research Center
     * Judith Pintar
       Judith Pintar
       Teaching Associate Professor
     * Kate Williams
       Kate Williams
       Associate Professor Emerita
     * Kathryn La Barre
       Kathryn La Barre
       Associate Professor
     * Lori Kendall
       Lori Kendall
       Associate Professor
     * Professor Michael Twidale
       Michael Twidale
       Professor and PhD Program Director
     * Ryan Cordell
       Ryan Cordell
       Associate Professor
     * Travis Wagner
       Travis L. Wagner
       Assistant Professor

Related Research Projects

Children, Comics, and Print Culture

   Time frame
          2015-2018

   Investigator
          Carol Tilley

   Total funding to date
          $19,036.00

   Funding agency
          University of Illinois Research Board

   This project expands Tilley’s investigation of comics from the
   perspective of readers, a much-neglected group in both contemporary and
   historical research. Comics readership among young people peaked in the
   mid-twentieth century with levels reaching near 100%, yet there has
   been little scholarly investigation of this phenomenon. Funding for
   this project will enable archival research trips and…

Donna Haraway is our "Friend": Reconfiguring Friendship Bracelets and
Bibliography

   Time frame
          2016-Present

   This project uses the friendship bracelet as a way to "re-weave" the
   academic canon. Friendship bracelets are handmade macramé bracelets of
   embroidery thread, intended to be worn as a sign of lasting friendship.
   In this collaboration with Julia Pollack (MS '12), bracelets have been
   woven with bibliographical references to important work of women in the
   field of knowledge-production.

   …

Implications of a Digital Revolution

   Total funding to date
          $14,000.00

   Funding agency
          Illinois Program for Research in the Humanities

   Notably absent in the current rush to digitize newspapers and books are
   critical investigations of the processes and products of this work.
   Such examinations are forestalled, Bonnie Mak argues, by a rhetoric of
   revolution that determines how the phenomenon should be constituted and
   studied, just as it continues to do for the so-called printing
   revolution of the fifteenth century. Her analysis…

Information's Allure

   Time frame
          2016-Present

   One of the enduring attractions of books is their ability to stand
   witness to their own presence through time and space. A history of
   social interaction is marked on the pages of a book; a folded corner, a
   stain from a careless reader's cup of coffee, and a thoughtful comment
   in the margin accrue and transmit something of where the book has been,
   with whom, and under what circumstances.…

Metadata Poems

   Time frame
          2017-Present

   Although standardized vocabularies and languages are often invoked as a
   way to ensure interoperability in the management of informational
   resources, these conventions prioritize particular ways of representing
   the world. This project situates metadata as an infrastructure of
   information, and examines how such descriptive practices have
   configured the production of knowledge for centuries—from…
   Metadata Poems project

Preserving Intangible Cultural Heritage

   Time frame
          2015-2017

   Investigators
          Lori Kendall, Maria Bonn

   Total funding to date
          $25,500.00

   Funding agency
          Andrew W. Mellon Foundation

   The past decade has seen tremendous progress in the field of
   preservation, particularly with respect to preservation of digital
   materials. To date, however, there has been only minimal research
   activity within North America on the preservation of intangible
   cultural heritage—such as language, cuisine, performing arts, and
   traditional craftsmanship—and its relationship to the preservation of…

Temporal Factors

   Time frame
          2012-2016

   Total funding to date
          $408,908.00

   Funding agency
          National Science Foundation

   Time affects information retrieval in many ways. Collections of
   documents change as new items are indexed. The content of documents
   themselves may change. Users submit queries at particular moments in
   time. And perhaps most importantly, people’s assessment of a document’s
   relevance to a query is often time-dependent. For example, searchers of
   news archives might seek information on a past…

Text Mining the Novel: Establishing the Foundations of a New Discipline

   Time frame
          2014-2020

   Investigators
          Ted Underwood, J. Stephen Downie

   Total funding to date
          $142,000.00

   Funding agency
          Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada

   This HathiTrust Research Center (HTRC) project seeks to produce the
   first large-scale cross-cultural study of the novel according to
   quantitative methods. Ever since its putative rise in the eighteenth
   century, the novel has emerged as a central means of expressing what it
   means to be modern. And yet despite this cultural significance, we
   still lack a comprehensive study of the novel’s place…

The Computer Music Project

   Time frame
          1984-Present

   Investigator
          Sever Tipei

   Funding agency
          National Endowment for the Arts, UIUC Campus Research Board,
          School of Music

   Founded in 1984, the Computer Music Project is a facility dedicated to
   computer music research and teaching. Through its existence, it has
   supported the development of new tools for composition, sound design,
   sound analysis, sonification, sound visualization and automatic
   notation along with the creation of new musical compositions. Software
   created at CMP benefits, in turn, classroom and…
   computer music at U of I

News Stories

Guo defends dissertation

   December 6 2023

   Doctoral candidate Qiuyan Guo successfully defended her dissertation,
   "Exploring Chinese Celebrity Fans’ Online Information Behaviors and
   Understandings of Their Practices," on December 6.
   Qiuyan Guo

iSchool researchers present at 4S 2023

   November 20 2023

   iSchool faculty, staff, and students presented their research at the
   Society for Social Studies of Science (4S) annual conference, which was
   held from November 8-11 in Honolulu, Hawaii. The society is an
   international, nonprofit association that fosters interdisciplinary
   scholarship in social studies of science, technology, and medicine.

Wagner to join iSchool faculty

   August 4 2023

   The iSchool is pleased to announce that Travis L. Wagner will join the
   faculty as an assistant professor in August 2023. They currently serve
   as a lecturer in the College of Information Studies at the University
   of Maryland.
   Travis Wagner

Gabriel to deliver keynote on building resilient collections

   April 11 2023

   PhD student Jamillah R. Gabriel will give the keynote address at the
   17th Annual Digital Commonwealth Conference, which will be held
   virtually on April 11. Digital Commonwealth provides resources and
   services to support the creation, management, and dissemination of
   cultural heritage materials held by libraries, museums, historical
   societies, archives, and other cultural institutions in Massachusetts.
   The theme of this year's conference is "Facing the Digital Future:
   Addressing Systemic Issues in Cultural Heritage."
   Jamillah Gabriel

Han to host workshop for youth to learn Chinese American history

   February 7 2023

   PhD student Yingying Han is helping youth learn about Chinese American
   history and take action to preserve their cultural heritage. Through a
   multi-session workshop, which will take place the next four Saturdays
   from 10:00-11:30 a.m. at the University YMCA in Champaign, Han hopes to
   teach children about the contributions of Chinese immigrants and
   Chinese Americans to the history of the United States.
   Yingying Han

Project to study anti-Black violence in newspapers receives support from
Mellon Foundation

   January 24 2023

   A project to examine the circulation of newspaper reports about
   anti-Black violence in nineteenth- and early twentieth-century U.S.
   newspapers could provide context to the spread of white supremacist
   ideologies in social media today.
   St. Louis newspaper from early 1900s

iSchool presents research at Digital Humanities 2022

   August 3 2022

   iSchool faculty, staff, and students presented their research at
   Digital Humanities 2022, the annual conference of the International
   Alliance of Digital Humanities Organizations. The theme of this year's
   conference, which was held online on July 25-29, was "Responding to
   Asian Diversity."

Guo receives dissertation fellowship

   July 6 2022

   Doctoral candidate Qiuyan Guo has received a 2022 Eugene Garfield
   Doctoral Dissertation Fellowship from Beta Phi Mu, the international
   library and information studies honor society. Beta Phi Mu awarded six
   fellowships, valued at $3,000 each, to doctoral students who are
   working on their dissertations in LIS, information studies,
   informatics, or a related field. Guo received the fellowship for her
   dissertation, "Exploring Chinese Celebrity Fans' Online Information
   Behaviors and Understandings of Their Fandom."
   Qiuyan Guo

New HRI Research Clusters include iSchool faculty

   June 1 2022

   Two projects led by iSchool faculty members have been selected as
   Humanities Research Institute (HRI) Research Clusters for 2022-2023.
   Formerly known as the Illinois Program for Research in the Humanities,
   HRI fosters interdisciplinary study in the humanities, arts, and social
   sciences at the University of Illinois. HRI Research Clusters enable
   faculty and graduate students to "develop questions or subjects of
   inquiry that require or would be enhanced by collaborative work."
   Projects selected as clusters receive grants of $2,500 to support their
   activities.

Kacunguzi defends dissertation

   April 5 2022

   Doctoral candidate Dianah T. Kacunguzi successfully defended her
   dissertation, "Knowledge Preservation Practices of Herbalists in
   Uganda: An Ethnographic Study," on March 31
   Dianah Kacunguzi

Cordell to deliver keynote on Viral Texts project

   October 14 2021

   Associate Professor Ryan Cordell will deliver the keynote address at
   the Marbach-Weimar-Wolfenbüttel (MWW) Research Association Mid-Term
   Conference, which will be held virtually from Germany on October 14-15.
   The goal of the MWW is "to provide future-oriented impulses for
   collaboration in the field of humanities and cultural studies
   research." The association's mid-term conference will focus on
   engagement with material and medial losses in the archive and library.
   Ryan Cordell

Han’s paper named a finalist for iConference award

   January 29 2021

   A paper coauthored by Ruohua Han, iSchool doctoral candidate, and
   Linqing Ma (Renmin University of China) has been named one of five
   finalists for the Best Short Research Paper Award at iConference 2021.
   The winner will be announced during the conference, which will take
   place online from March 17-31.
   Ruohua Han

New role for Pintar

   August 22 2019

   The iSchool is pleased to announce that Judith Pintar is now a teaching
   associate professor. In her new position, in addition to teaching core
   courses in the BS in information sciences (BS/IS) program, she will
   develop and teach courses related to game studies and interactive
   narrative design for both undergraduates and graduate students.
   Judith Pintar

Chan selected as a Data & Society Faculty Fellow

   July 3 2019

   Associate Professor Anita Say Chan has been selected as a 2019-2020
   Data & Society Faculty Fellow. Data & Society is a research institute
   focused on the social and cultural issues arising from automation and
   data-centric technology. Its programs draw together researchers and a
   broad network of practitioners to bring new perspectives and
   intellectual breadth to the institute's work.
   Anita Say Chan

Book chapter co-authored by Bettivia examines digital heritage

   June 5 2019

   Postdoctoral Research Associate Rhiannon Bettivia (PhD '16) is the
   co-author of a chapter in Politics of Scale: New Directions in Critical
   Heritage Studies, a newly published book edited by Tuuli Lähdesmäki,
   Suzie Thomas, and Yujie Zhu. In the chapter, "The Dynamics of Scale in
   Digital Heritage Cultures," Bettivia and Elizabeth Stainforth, a
   lecturer at the University of Leeds, examine scalar politics as enacted
   through Europeana, the EU digital platform for cultural heritage, and
   the Digital Public Library of America.
   Rhiannon Bettivia

Chan joins iSchool faculty

   March 19 2019

   The iSchool is pleased to announce that Anita Say Chan has joined the
   faculty. She also holds a joint appointment with the College of Media,
   where she is an associate professor of communications in the Department
   of Media and Cinema Studies.
   Anita Say Chan

Cloonan publishes book on cultural heritage preservation

   September 20 2018

   Michèle Valerie Cloonan (MS '84, PhD '88), iSchool research associate
   professor and professor of the School of Library and Information
   Science at Simmons University, has authored a book addressing the
   social, cultural, and political issues in cultural heritage
   preservation. Her book, The Monumental Challenge of Preservation: The
   Past in a Volatile World, was recently published by The MIT Press.
   The Monumental Challenge of Preservation

New book 'beginning' of New Philadelphia story

   September 11 2018

   Professor Emeritus Gerald McWorter (Abdul Alkalimat) and Associate
   Professor Kate Williams have coauthored a book on New Philadelphia, the
   first known town planned and legally registered in the U.S. by an
   African American, Gerald's great-great-grandfather, Free Frank
   McWorter.
   New Philadelphia book cover

Kacunguzi to discuss preserving indigenous knowledge at QQML 2018

   May 21 2018

   Doctoral candidate Dianah T. Kacunguzi will present her research at the
   10th Quantitative and Qualitative Methods in in Libraries International
   Conference (QQML 2018), which will be held on May 22-25 in Chania,
   Greece.
   Doctoral candidate Dianah Kacunguzi

Benson and Green share expertise in copyright, digital publishing at SCI 2017

   November 2 2017

   Master's student Sara Benson, copyright librarian and assistant
   professor at the University Library, and Harriett Green, affiliated
   faculty member and head of scholarly communication and publishing at
   the University Library, have been invited to present at the 2017
   Triangle Scholarly Communication Institute (SCI 2017).
    1. 1
    2. 2
    3. 3

   NEXT

Research

     * Areas
     * Projects
     * Vision
     * Services
     * Showcase
     * Research Fellows
     * Scholars-in-Residence
     * Postdoctoral Researchers
     * Videos

   Back to top
   School of Information Sciences
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

   501 E. Daniel St. MC-493
   Champaign, IL 61820-6211
   Voice (217) 333-3280
   Fax (217) 244-3302
   ischool@illinois.edu

quick links

     * School Directory
     * Visit
     * Help Desk
     * Course Login
     * iSchool Connect
     * IS Virtual Library

campus resources

     * Privacy Notice
     * Campus Directory
     * Graduate College
     * University Library
     * University of Illinois

   ©2024 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
   Cookie Settings
