    #RSS 2.0 RSS .92 Atom 1.0 alternate alternate alternate alternate
   alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate

   [tr?id=789981728127844&ev=PageView&noscript=1]

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-M7XFXCC

     * Home
     * Collections
          + Overview
          + Himalayan and Inner Asian Collection
          + South Asian Collection
          + East Asian Collection
     * About
          + Mission
          + History
          + Preservation
          + Team
          + Projects
     * Library
          + Overview
          + Downloads
          + Portal
     * Support
          + Donate
          + Keep Wisdom Alive
          + Planned Giving
          + Annual Report
     * News
     * English
          + 简体中文
          + 繁體中文
          + Español
          + Русский

COLLECTIONS
OVERVIEW

   Scroll
   [svg+xml;nitro-empty-id=MjI1OjEzMQ==-1;base64,PHN2ZyB2aWV3Qm94PSIwIDAgM
   TQ0MCA4MDAiIHdpZHRoPSIxNDQwIiBoZWlnaHQ9IjgwMCIgeG1sbnM9Imh0dHA6Ly93d3cu
   dzMub3JnLzIwMDAvc3ZnIj48L3N2Zz4=]
     * Collections Overview
     * Himalayan and Inner Asian Collection
     * South Asian Collection
     * East Asian Collection

The mission of the Asian Legacy Library is to locate, preserve, and safeguard
for all time the exquisite cultural literary wisdom traditions of the East.

OUR PURPOSE

   Our world sits at a dramatic juncture; there is change afoot in all
   walks of life. As new fields of scientific knowledge and innovation
   spring up all around us, we risk losing our sense of personal balance
   and integrity, as well as our sense of collective moral values and
   wisdom. As we quest for guidance, the world’s rich contemplative wisdom
   traditions call to us—religious and non-religious alike—with their
   thousands of years’ history of developing a broad array of practical
   applications for achieving human good.

   Wisdom lineage holders, intellectuals, artists, and teachers have long
   offered incisive analyses of the fundamental existential problems of
   suffering and identity, as well as a rich array of contemplative
   practices designed to mitigate suffering and build new
   identities—pathways leading to personal and collective transformation.

   To realize the full benefit of this rich legacy for the world, we must
   go beyond traditional religious boundaries and come to understand how
   such contemplative practices can be applied in the world around us,
   across all societies.
     *
     *
     *

Cultural heritage

   Traditionally, cultural heritage is an expression of the various ways
   of living developed by a society and passed on through generations,
   including customs, practices, objects, artistic expressions, and
   values. Cultural heritage is often expressed as either tangible or
   intangible.

   As part of human activity, cultural heritage generally produces
   tangible representations of its value systems, beliefs, traditions, and
   lifestyles—such as visual art and architecture—as well as the
   intangible, which includes voices, values, traditions, oral history,
   spiritual ceremonies, and storytelling.

   ALL strives to preserve and safeguard the intangible along with the
   tangible. An example is the priceless cultural wisdom traditions of the
   East which are documented in the rich and varied book culture that has
   been produced over centuries.

ALL’s emphasis is primarily on the wisdom traditions originating from three
specific geographic areas: the Himalaya and Inner Asia, South Asia, and East
Asia.

   The Asian Legacy Library is home to some of the rarest wisdom
   literature in the world. We have organized our material based on their
   origin from three specific geographic regions: the Himalaya and Inner
   Asia, South Asia, and East Asia.

   ALL’s preservation efforts reflect a deep appreciation for the need to
   understand how text traditions were meaningful to people in the various
   regions and cultures in which they flourished. It seeks to do this by
   establishing its preservation centers in places where traditional
   learning, knowledge systems, and transmission of “timeless wisdom”
   practices are still taking place.

HIMALAYAN
AND INNER
ASIAN
COLLECTION

   Over the years, along with our preservation partners, ALL’s primary
   mission has been the preservation of the cultural wisdom literature of
   the Himalaya. Surrounded by the highest mountains in the world, this
   region has enjoyed a cultural threshold in that it is geographically
   separated from the other powerful cultures of the East. It has been a
   locus for spiritual practice for millennia. The primary religions
   practiced here are Hinduism, Buddhism, and Islam. The Himalayan region
   eventually provided humankind with an unparalleled documentation of the
   teachings of the Buddha as they made their way out of India to the rest
   of the world beginning in the 4th century.

   Our most significant effort has been to locate and preserve the
   Buddhist wisdom tradition texts of the Tibetan plateau and their
   migration to the Mongolian plain.
   SEE COLLECTION

SOUTH ASIAN
COLLECTION

   South Asia is one of the most linguistically diverse geographic regions
   in the world. Its communities have given rise historically to an
   unparalleled diversity of knowledge traditions. First compiled some
   1,500 years before the Common Era, these collections were transmitted
   orally without being committed to writing until the 1st century BCE,
   when a strong literary tradition began to develop.

   The emphasis of ALL’s preservation efforts in South Asia are the
   collections of Ayurvedic and Sanskrit Buddhist literary traditions.
   SEE COLLECTION

EAST ASIAN
COLLECTION

   East Asian Buddhism has the largest number of followers within the
   global Buddhist population. There are various forms of Buddhism in East
   Asia, and they are all influenced by Chinese culture and philosophy.
   The most influential Buddhist traditions in East Asia include Chan
   (Zen, Sôn, Thiền), Pure Land, Huayan (Kegon, Hwaŏm, Hoa nghiêm),
   Tiantai (Tendai, Ch’ŏnt’ae, Thiên Thai), and Esoteric Buddhism.

   These schools emphasize the study of Mahayana Buddhist scriptures as
   one of their central practices. The East Asian collection has placed a
   premium on preserving and expanding its collection of scriptures and
   treatises included in the Chinese Buddhist Canon, the scriptural canon
   long used and revered in East Asian countries, such as China, Japan,
   the Korean Peninsula, and Vietnam.
   SEE COLLECTION

   Please
   Donate

   Asian Legacy Library

   The Asian Legacy Library
   The Asian Legacy Library
   6490 State Route 179
   Sedona, AZ 86351

   USA

   CONTACT
   +1 928 295-7008
   info@asianlegacylibrary.org

   FOLLOW US
     * Facebook
     * Instagram
     * LinkedIn

   ©2021 The Asian Legacy Library. All rights reserved.

   created by noformat
